The first part of the screenplay tells the story of a man (with or without a name?) In his forties. He is jaded by his life because he has never lived it. Nothing exciting; a normal life. He is a normal citizen, a slave of society. He struggles every day to take the metro at rush hour to arrive on time, works 8, 9 am in a financial company every day, breathes the city's ever-increasing pollution. He followed the path given for him (because he was told repeatedly that it was the "most reasonable" choice.
Recently, he can no longer dream. When he sleeps, he unwittingly only thinks about his work. Not being able to dream and disconnect from work weighs him down. He wants to be able to escape, to escape from everything, from this life, from this society. His economic and family situation prevents him from taking the first plane to the unknown. He then tries several activities without success. Her heart then told her to get back to basics, to isolate herself from the "noises" of society. He thus seeks natural places. He thus discovers the joys of trailing in nature and meditation. The return to nature and meditation gives him peace and he begins to dream again little by little.

He trains mentally and physically every day for years. [In the background / watermark, the news only speaks of the degradation of the Earth degrading, pollution, war, terrorism, disease, economic crisis, global warming,…] Sometimes, he is so immersed in meditation that he has the feeling of flying. Then one day, while meditating, he sees himself from above. He realizes that he has left his body. He is initially panicked but quickly appreciates the situation. He manages to fit into his body. It was the most amazing time of his life. After work, he continues to train until he can leave his body envelope at will. He understands that the mind is subject to other physical rules. He can defy the laws of gravity, cross walls, but also does not feel hot, cold or physical fatigue. It then goes further and further and also faster and faster. He manages to circle the earth. Having visited all the places he dreamed of going. (Has very little interest in society, politics, ...), so he decides to leave Earth to visit another galaxy.
In space, he quickly loses track of time and space. He gets lost. When he finally manages to find Earth. He realizes that this one is about to explode / implode. The men destroyed it. How long has it been since he left? He is desperately looking for his body. He finds it decomposing in a pit full of other bodies. There is hardly any life left.

There is nothing more to do. He has nothing more to do on Earth and is forced to leave it. As he moves away from Earth, he watches it explode. Sadly, he wonders how mankind got there? He is now the only human being still alive (unless there are astronauts still on a mission in space but in this case, they are doomed because they have lost their point of return, their home). He goes in search of a habitable planet, in search of some kind of life, of a civilization. But there is only one point in this almost infinitesimal / infinite universe. Where to go ? In which direction ? How long will it take me? He doesn't know. He chooses a landmark in space and sets out.
Even though he is a spirit and in this state he feels nothing, he feels the coldness of space. He wanted to isolate himself and now he feels so / terribly alone. He has no one to talk to, touch, stroke, smell, ... (He also misses the ability to eat and drink). He concluded that human beings had become attached to unimportant things. Only love matters, true friendship. Being able to laugh but also cry with it. He has seen wonderful things since he left his body, yet even that doesn't matter anymore because he can't share it with anyone. Now all that is left is the thought, the memories, the regrets.
* He doesn't know how long has passed since he left Earth. Dozens of years (must have) have passed. He is desperate to find some kind of life. Hundreds of years go by, he has given up all hope. Alone and desperate, he eventually stops thinking, becoming nothing more than flying / shooting dust in this infinity.

It wanders for millions of more years until its path finally crosses a giant vacuum cleaner, a black hole. The black hole can suck everything up, even our character's mind. This accelerates and is dragged into the hole. Inside, the hole appears to be a tornado, violent and surprisingly colorful. All swallowed materials - all known and unknown chemicals, light - collide, mix. In the midst of this whirlwind, the spirit of mankind's last legacy. As the materials seem to flow through it, it begins to re-materialize. Waking up from a long sleep, he begins to rethink. He begins to feel again, first his own body, then the materials that touch him. He is no longer a spirit but a real being. " Tears ? ". He is happy to cry about it. He can feel his own tears again.
Regaining a new body, he is also once again a fragile human being unable to survive in space. His joy quickly gave way to the anguish of dying. He comes out of the black hole, violently expelled. He cannot breathe, he suffocates. He can no longer also control his trajectory. On the verge of death, he instinctively managed to create an oxygen-filled bubble of protection and regain control of his trajectory. He doesn't realize what he did at first. Then he realizes that he has obtained "powers". He can feel not only his body but also well beyond, the space around him millions of light years (away). He feels he can also manipulate the materials around him.
He concentrates and gets to feel what could be a very young, habitable planet. After several tries, he learns to propel / move in space freely and then heads towards this planet. He hopes to finally find a place with life, a place to settle down. When he gets there, he finds living organisms that are still underdeveloped, plants, forests, ... and especially water (🡪 learn about the possible planets imagined by scientists). The air seems breathable. He removes his protective bubble and as if to mark a great relief, he takes a deep breath and exhales with a big smile. He has finally found a home.

Some time has passed since his arrival (hundreds of day / night cycles). He has set up a big house. He occupies his days studying the planet, its physics, living organisms, satellites, day and night cycles, ... while trying to understand its power. Passionate about his work and all he can accomplish with his power, when he sleeps however he remembers that he has no one to share his findings with and that makes him extremely sad. He wonders how far he can go with his power / what the extent of his power is. If he can now fly, create buildings, he wonders if he can create a person, a "friend".
Hundreds of day / night cycles are still going on. He reached an almost divine level of consciousness. He feels the slightest changes / actions on the planet and the galaxy, and the consequences of those changes. “Nothing is created, nor is it lost, everything is transformed”. He knows how to manipulate infinitesimal particles, bind them, transform to achieve / shape whatever he wants. Anything but a friend. He can recreate a human body, but how do you create a soul? He still can't find the answer and he feels the end of his life is approaching. Almighty as he is, he cannot control time either.
Using her power during all these day / night cycles was not without consequence. He's worn out. He knows that one day soon, his body and mind will die and re-transform, continuing the cycle of the universe. Where his soul will go, he cannot know. Tired and alone, he takes / makes a final bet to make his last wish come true: to create souls who will share their life together in perfect harmony. He creates a temple to store all his knowledge, his life, that of the Earth, his experiences and his aspirations. Then, with the strength it has left, it flies in the sky and explodes into thousands of atoms (to disperse them all over the planet?) Hoping that one day its genetic / DNA will survive, develop and will give birth to human beings, whom they inherit from his will to live in peace, in harmony, his will to live in a utopia.