IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG AND PASSEPARTOUT ACCEPT EACH OTHER, 
Mr. Phileas Fogg lived, in 1872, at No. 7, Saville Row, Burlington
Certainly an Englishman, it was more doubtful whether Phileas Fogg was
counting-rooms of the "City"; no ships ever came into London docks of
Phileas Fogg was a member of the Reform, and that was all.
Was Phileas Fogg rich?
not imagine how he had made his fortune, and Mr. Fogg was the last
club as to lost and unheard-of travellers, pointing out the true
It was at least certain that Phileas Fogg had not absented himself from
Phileas Fogg was not known to have either wife or children, which may
mathematically fixed, in the same room, at the same table, never taking
He passed ten hours out of the twenty-four in Saville Row,
little from the sole domestic, but Phileas Fogg required him to be
Phileas Fogg was seated squarely in his armchair, his feet close
complicated clock which indicated the hours, the minutes, the seconds,
Fogg would, according to his daily habit, quit Saville Row, and repair
Phileas Fogg was seated, and James Forster, the dismissed servant,
"The new servant," said he.
"You are a Frenchman, I believe," asked Phileas Fogg, "and your name is
"Jean, if monsieur pleases," replied the newcomer, "Jean Passepartout,
out of place, and hearing that Monsieur Phileas Fogg was the most exact
"Passepartout suits me," responded Mr. Fogg.
"Twenty-two minutes after eleven," returned Passepartout, drawing an
"You are too slow," said Mr. Fogg.
Phileas Fogg got up, took his hat in his left hand, put it on his head
Passepartout heard the street door shut once; it was his new master
Passepartout remained alone in the
"Faith," muttered Passepartout, somewhat flurried, "I've seen people at
During his brief interview with Mr. Fogg, Passepartout had been
clear eye, Mr. Fogg seemed a perfect type of that English composure
Phileas Fogg was, indeed, exactitude personified, and this was betrayed
As for Passepartout, he was a true Parisian of Paris.
bold gaze and a nose held high in the air; he was an honest fellow,
serviceable, with a good round head, such as one likes to see on the
Passepartout was familiar with but one of dressing his own: three
It would be rash to predict how Passepartout's lively nature would
that Mr. Phileas Fogg was looking for a servant, and that his life was
At half-past eleven, then, Passepartout found himself alone in the
the mantel stood an electric clock, precisely like that in Mr. Fogg's
good, that'll do," said Passepartout to himself.
morning, exactly at which hour Phileas Fogg rose, till half-past
was to be done from half-past eleven a.m. till midnight, the hour at
Mr. Fogg's wardrobe was amply supplied and in the best taste.
books, which would have been quite useless to Mr. Fogg; for at the
Passepartout found neither arms nor hunting weapons anywhere;
Ah, we shall get on together, Mr. Fogg and I!
IN WHICH A CONVERSATION TAKES PLACE WHICH SEEMS LIKELY TO COST PHILEAS
FOGG DEAR
Phileas Fogg, having shut the door of his house at half-past eleven,
seventy-five times, and his left foot before his right five hundred and
seventy-six times, reached the Reform Club, an imposing edifice in Pall
absorbed Phileas Fogg until a quarter before four, whilst the Standard,
breakfast had done, and Mr. Fogg re-appeared in the reading-room and
Fogg's usual partners at whist: Andrew Stuart, an engineer; John
It was Phileas Fogg, whose head now emerged from behind his newspapers,
talk, had occurred three days before at the Bank of England.
relates that, being in one of the rooms of the Bank one day, he had the
There were real grounds for supposing, as the Daily Telegraph said,
together, while Phileas Fogg had Fallentin for his partner.
"I maintain," said Stuart, "that the chances are in favour of the
"It was once," said Phileas Fogg, in a low tone.
"I agree with Mr. Fogg.
"I agree with Mr. Fogg.
grown smaller, since a man can now go round it ten times more quickly
"Be so good as to play, Mr. Stuart," said Phileas Fogg.
finished, said eagerly: "You have a strange way, Ralph, of proving that
"In eighty days," interrupted Phileas Fogg.
"Yes, in eighty days!" exclaimed Stuart, who in his excitement made a
"All included," returned Phileas Fogg, continuing to play despite the
"But suppose the Hindoos or Indians pull up the rails," replied Stuart;
"All included," calmly retorted Fogg; adding, as he threw down the
are right, theoretically, Mr. Fogg, but practically—"
"I'd like to see you do it in eighty days."
"Quite possible, on the contrary," returned Mr. Fogg.
"The journey round the world in eighty days?"
"Deal over again, then," said Phileas Fogg.
"Well, Mr. Fogg," said he, "it shall be so: I will wager the four
"All right," said Mr. Fogg; and, turning to the others, he continued: "I have a
"The unforeseen does not exist," quietly replied Phileas Fogg.
"But, Mr. Fogg, eighty days are only the estimate of the least possible
thing as a wager," replied Phileas Fogg, solemnly.
the world in eighty days or less; in nineteen hundred and twenty hours,
"Good," said Mr. Fogg.
"This very evening," returned Phileas Fogg.
October, I shall be due in London in this very room of the Reform Club,
parties, during which Phileas Fogg preserved a stoical composure.
that Mr. Fogg might make his preparations for departure.
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG ASTOUNDS PASSEPARTOUT, HIS SERVANT
Having won twenty guineas at whist, and taken leave of his friends,
Phileas Fogg, at twenty-five minutes past seven, left the Reform Club.
Passepartout, who had conscientiously studied the programme of his
Mr. Fogg repaired to his bedroom, and called out, "Passepartout!"
Passepartout did not reply.
"Passepartout!" repeated Mr. Fogg, without raising his voice.
A puzzled grin overspread Passepartout's round face; clearly he had not
"Yes," returned Phileas Fogg.
Passepartout opened wide his eyes, raised his eyebrows, held up his
"In eighty days," responded Mr. Fogg.
"But the trunks?" gasped Passepartout, unconsciously swaying his head
Passepartout tried to reply, but could not.
After all, Passepartout, who had been away from France five years,
By eight o'clock Passepartout had packed the modest carpet-bag,
Mr. Fogg was quite ready.
Take this carpet-bag," handing it to Passepartout.
Passepartout nearly dropped the bag, as if the twenty thousand pounds
Master and man then descended, the street-door was double-locked, and
The cab stopped before the railway station at twenty minutes
Passepartout jumped off the box and followed his master,
Mr. Fogg took out the twenty guineas he had just won at whist, and
Passepartout had a moist sensation about the eyes; his master's action
Fogg was crossing the station to the train, when he perceived his five
"Oh, that would be quite unnecessary, Mr. Fogg," said Ralph politely.
"In eighty days; on Saturday, the 21st of December, 1872, at a quarter
Phileas Fogg and his servant seated themselves in a first-class
Just as the train was whirling through Sydenham, Passepartout suddenly
"Very well, young man," returned Mr. Fogg, coolly; "it will burn—at
Phileas Fogg rightly suspected that his departure from London would
Some took sides with Phileas Fogg, but the large majority shook
Fogg's project as madness; the Daily Telegraph alone hesitatingly
Reform Club friends for having accepted a wager which betrayed the
devoted to Phileas Fogg's venture were eagerly devoured by all classes
blocking up by snow—were not all these against Phileas Fogg?
two or three days behind time?
fatally break the chain of communication; should Phileas Fogg once
miss, even by an hour; a steamer, he would have to wait for the next,
wagers for or against Phileas Fogg, who was set down in the betting
appearance on 'Change; "Phileas Fogg bonds" were offered at par or at a
demand began to subside:  "Phileas Fogg" declined.
advocate of Phileas Fogg left.
the world, if it took ten years; and he bet five thousand pounds on
The Fogg party dwindled more and more, everybody was going against him,
I've found the bank robber, Phileas Fogg.
Fix, Detective.
habits of Phileas Fogg were recalled; his solitary ways, his sudden
IN WHICH FIX, THE DETECTIVE, BETRAYS A VERY NATURAL IMPATIENCE
Fogg was sent were as follows:
ships daily passing to and fro on the great canal, by which the old
"No, Mr. Fix," replied the consul.
Said, and the rest of the way is of no account to such a craft.
"Mr. Fix," said the consul, "I like your way of talking, and hope
"Consul," remarked the detective, dogmatically, "great robbers always
As he passed among the busy crowd, Fix, according to habit, scrutinised
"The steamer doesn't come!" he exclaimed, as the port clock struck.
and ten miles from Suez to Aden, at the other end of the Red Sea, and
"Good!" said Fix.
the New World, he would naturally take the route via India, which was
But Fix's reflections were soon interrupted by a succession of sharp
passing along between the banks, and eleven o'clock struck as she
Fix took up a position, and carefully examined each face and figure
came up to him and politely asked if he could point out the English
consulate, at the same time showing a passport which he wished to have
Fix instinctively took the passport, and with a rapid glance
"There, on the corner of the square," said Fix, pointing to a house two
The passenger bowed to Fix, and returned to the steamer.
The detective passed down the quay, and rapidly made his way to the
"Well, Mr. Fix," replied the consul, "I shall not be sorry to see the
servant whom Fix had met on the quay.
whilst Fix observed, or rather devoured, the stranger with his eyes
"You are Mr. Phileas Fogg?" said the consul, after reading the passport.
"He is: a Frenchman, named Passepartout."
"I know it, sir," replied Phileas Fogg; "but I wish to prove, by your
Mr. Fogg paid the customary fee, coldly
"Well, he looks and acts like a perfectly honest man," replied the
Fix started off in search of Passepartout.
Meanwhile Mr. Fogg, after leaving the consulate, repaired to the quay,
gave some orders to Passepartout, went off to the    Mongolia in a
Suez, Bombay, Calcutta, Singapore, Hong Kong, Yokohama, San Francisco,
account of everything needed, and Mr. Fogg always knew whether he was
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT TALKS RATHER MORE, PERHAPS, THAN IS PRUDENT
Fix soon rejoined Passepartout, who was lounging and looking about on
"Well, my friend," said the detective, coming up with him, "is your
"Ah, it's you, is it, monsieur?" responded Passepartout.
"In Africa!" repeated Passepartout.
And they walked off together, Passepartout chatting volubly as they
"Above all," said he; "don't let me lose the steamer."
Passepartout pulled out his big watch.
"I see how it is," said Fix.
After a few minutes silence, Fix resumed: "You left London
Monsieur Fogg came home from his club, and three-quarters of an hour
"Round the world?" cried Fix.
Mr. Fogg is a character, is he?"
"And you have known your master a long time?"
"Why, no; I entered his service the very day we left London."
the robbery; the large sum carried by Mr. Fogg; his eagerness to reach
He continued to pump poor Passepartout,
lived a solitary existence in London, was said to be rich, though no
Fix felt sure that Phileas Fogg would not land
"Is Bombay far from here?" asked Passepartout.
Did Fix pay any attention to Passepartout's trouble about the gas?
Passepartout and he had now reached the shop, where Fix left his
"Consul," said he, "I have no longer any doubt.
He passes himself off as an odd stick who is going round the world in
"We'll see about that," replied Fix.
"In short," said the consul, "appearances are wholly against this man.
Having uttered these words with a cool, careless air, the detective
took leave of the consul, and repaired to the telegraph office, whence
quarter of an hour later found Fix, with a small bag in his hand,
noble steamer rode out at full steam upon the waters of the Red Sea.
TO THE DESIGNS OF PHILEAS FOGG
ten miles, and the regulations of the company allow the steamers one
military men, a number of rich young Englishmen on their travels, and
the hospitable efforts of the purser, the time passed quickly on the
scrupulously changed their toilets twice a day; and the hours were
was Phileas Fogg doing all this time?
this eccentric personage pass his time on the Mongolia?
brigade at Benares, made up the party, and, with Mr. Fogg, played whist
As for Passepartout, he, too, had escaped sea-sickness, and took his
pleased, on the day after leaving Suez, to find on deck the obliging
"Monsieur Fix," resumed Passepartout, "I'm charmed to find you on
"Why yes," replied Fix, who spoke cautiously.
"I hope so, Monsieur Fix.
spend his life jumping from a steamer upon a railway train, and from a
railway train upon a steamer again, pretending to make the tour of the
"And Mr. Fogg is getting on well?" asked Fix, in the most natural tone
"Do you know, Mr. Passepartout, that this pretended tour in eighty days
"Faith, Monsieur Fix, I assure you I know nothing about it, nor would I
After this meeting, Passepartout and Fix got into the habit of chatting
in the steamer bar-room, which Passepartout never failed to accept with
graceful alacrity, mentally pronouncing Fix the best of good fellows.
Passepartout was ravished to behold this celebrated place, and thought
and the next day they put in at Steamer Point, north-west of Aden
before reaching Bombay, and was obliged to remain four hours at Steamer
Phileas Fogg's programme; besides, the Mongolia, instead of reaching
Mr. Fogg and his servant went ashore at Aden to have the passport again
visaed; Fix, unobserved, followed them.
The visa procured, Mr. Fogg
returned on board to resume his former habits; while Passepartout,
"Very curious, very curious," said Passepartout to himself, on
travel, if a man wants to see something new."  At six p.m.
reach Bombay, and the sea was favourable, the wind being in the
Indian coast: two hours later the pilot came on board.
Phileas Fogg was in the act of finishing the thirty-third rubber of the
This was a gain to Phileas Fogg of two days since his departure from
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT IS ONLY TOO GLAD TO GET OFF WITH THE LOSS OF HIS
this vast country, and has a governor-general stationed at Calcutta,
has now passed away, leaving the British possessions in India directly
route, traverses the peninsula from Bombay to Calcutta in three days.
The general route of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway is as follows:
Leaving Bombay, it passes through Salcette, crossing to the continent
The passengers of the Mongolia went ashore at half-past four p.m.; at
Mr. Fogg, after bidding good-bye to his whist partners, left the
beat to the second, like an astronomical clock, directed his steps to
Having transacted his business at the passport office, Phileas Fogg
Mr. Fogg accordingly tasted the dish, but, despite its spiced sauce,
appearance, said, fixing his clear eyes upon him, "Is this rabbit, sir?"
After which Mr. Fogg quietly continued his dinner.
shore shortly after Mr. Fogg, and his first destination was the
a moment, any more than Passepartout, that Phileas Fogg would remain
Passepartout, however, had no sooner heard his master's orders on
to ask himself if this bet that Mr. Fogg talked about was not really in
despite his love of repose, around the world in eighty days!
needless to say that Passepartout watched these curious ceremonies with
the Parsee carnival wind away in the distance, he was turning his steps
Passepartout, however, thinking no harm, went in like a simple tourist,
At five minutes before eight, Passepartout, hatless, shoeless, and
Fix, who had followed Mr. Fogg to the station, and saw that he was
really going to leave Bombay, was there, upon the platform.
Passepartout did not observe the detective, who stood in an
obscure corner; but Fix heard him relate his adventures in a few words
"I hope that this will not happen again," said Phileas Fogg coldly, as
Poor Passepartout, quite crestfallen, followed
Fix was on the point of entering another
Just then the locomotive gave a sharp screech, and the train passed out
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG SECURES A CURIOUS MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AT A
Fogg's whist partners on the Mongolia, now on his way to join his corps
Sir Francis was a tall, fair man of fifty, who had greatly
But Phileas Fogg, who was not travelling, but
at this moment calculating in his mind the number of hours spent since
Sir Francis Cromarty had observed the oddity of his travelling
exterior, and whether Phileas Fogg had any sense of the beauties of
Phileas Fogg had not concealed from Sir Francis his design of going
would leave the world without having done any good to himself or
An hour after leaving Bombay the train had passed the viaducts and the
Fogg, you would have met with a delay at this point which would
"But, Mr. Fogg," pursued Sir Francis, "you run the risk of having some
Passepartout, his feet comfortably wrapped in his travelling-blanket,
"Very well, Sir Francis," replied Mr. Fogg; "if he had been caught he
During the night the train left the
mountains behind, and passed Nassik, and the next day proceeded over
Passepartout, on waking and looking out, could not realise that he was
actually crossing India in a railway train.
eyes, gazed at the train as it passed.
At half-past twelve the train stopped at Burhampoor where Passepartout
Passepartout was now plunged into absorbing reverie.
than Mr. Fogg, he was much more restless, counting and recounting the
days passed over, uttering maledictions when the train stopped, and
accusing it of sluggishness, and mentally blaming Mr. Fogg for not
The train entered the defiles of the Sutpour Mountains, which separate
Francis Cromarty asked Passepartout what time it was; to which, on
Sir Francis corrected Passepartout's time, whereupon the
each degree gone over, Passepartout obstinately refused to alter his
watch, which he kept at London time.
The train stopped, at eight o'clock, in the midst of a glade some
Phileas Fogg looked at Sir Francis Cromarty for an explanation; but the
Passepartout, not less surprised, rushed out and speedily returned,
"What do you mean?" asked Sir Francis.
"I mean to say that the train isn't going on."
The general at once stepped out, while Phileas Fogg calmly followed
"Yet you sell tickets from Bombay to Calcutta," retorted Sir Francis,
"No doubt," replied the conductor; "but the passengers know that they
"Sir Francis," said Mr. Fogg quietly, "we will, if you please, look
"Mr. Fogg, this is a delay greatly to your disadvantage."
reach Calcutta in time."
The papers were like some watches, which have a way of getting
of this interruption, and, leaving the train, they began to engage such
drawn by zebus, carriages that looked like perambulating pagodas,
Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty, after searching the village from end
"I shall go afoot," said Phileas Fogg.
Passepartout, who had now rejoined his master, made a wry grimace, as
too had been looking about him, and, after a moment's hesitation, said,
"Let's go and see the elephant," replied Mr. Fogg.
method being often employed by those who train the Indian elephants for
Happily, however, for Mr. Fogg, the animal's instruction in
doubtless travel rapidly for a long time, and, in default of any other
means of conveyance, Mr. Fogg resolved to hire him.
When therefore Mr. Fogg proposed
persisted, offering the excessive sum of ten pounds an hour for the
Passepartout jumped at each
alluring one, for, supposing it took the elephant fifteen hours to
Phileas Fogg, without getting in the least flurried, then proposed to
The Indian, perhaps thinking he was going to make a great
Sir Francis Cromarty took Mr. Fogg aside, and begged him to reflect
Mr. Fogg offered first twelve hundred, then
At two thousand pounds the Indian yielded.
"What a price, good heavens!" cried Passepartout, "for an elephant."
Fogg accepted, promising so generous a reward as to materially
Phileas Fogg paid the Indian with
proceeding that seemed to deprive poor Passepartout of his vitals.
while Sir Francis and Mr. Fogg took the howdahs on either side,
Passepartout got astride the saddle-cloth between them.
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG AND HIS COMPANIONS VENTURE 
In order to shorten the journey, the guide passed to the left of the
Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty, plunged to the neck in the
Passepartout, who was mounted on the beast's back, and received the
Neither Sir Francis nor Mr. Fogg regretted the delay, and
"Of forged iron," replied Passepartout, as he set about preparing a
The travellers several times saw bands of
What would Mr. Fogg do with the elephant when he got to
Should Mr. Fogg choose to make him, Passepartout, a
thoughts did not cease worrying him for a long time.
They had gone nearly twenty-five miles that day, and an
Mr. Fogg, he slumbered as peacefully as if he had been in his serene
The journey was resumed at six in the morning; the guide hoped to reach
In that case, Mr. Fogg would only lose a part of
"What's the matter?" asked Sir Francis, putting out his head.
"I don't know, officer," replied the Parsee, listening attentively to a
Mr. Fogg patiently waited without a word.
time asking the travellers not to stir.
The head of the procession soon appeared beneath the trees, a hundred
"Of death, perhaps," muttered back Passepartout, "but of love—that
Sir Francis watched the procession with a sad countenance, and, turning
Phileas Fogg had heard what Sir Francis said, and, as soon as the
"Oh, the scoundrels!" cried Passepartout, who could not repress his
"And the corpse?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"Is it possible," resumed Phileas Fogg, his voice betraying not the
"The poor wretch!" exclaimed Passepartout, "to be burned alive!"
"Yes," returned Sir Francis, "burned alive.
While Sir Francis was speaking, the guide shook his head several times,
and now said: "The sacrifice which will take place to-morrow at dawn is
"To the pagoda of Pillaji, two miles from here; she will pass the night
a peculiar whistle, Mr. Fogg stopped him, and, turning to Sir Francis
Cromarty, said, "Suppose we save this woman."
"Save the woman, Mr. Fogg!"
"Sometimes," replied Phileas Fogg, quietly; "when I have the time."
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT RECEIVES A NEW PROOF THAT FORTUNE FAVORS THE BRAVE
Mr. Fogg was going to risk life, or at least liberty, and therefore the
As for Passepartout, he was ready for anything that might be proposed.
He began to love Phileas Fogg.
"Officers," replied the guide, "I am a Parsee, and this woman is a
"Excellent!" said Mr. Fogg.
"That is foreseen," replied Mr. Fogg.
"I think so," said the guide.
The worthy Indian then gave some account of the victim, who, he said,
The Parsee's narrative only confirmed Mr. Fogg and his companions in
Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty also saw that nothing could be
The time seemed long; the guide ever and anon left them to take an
They waited till midnight; but no change took place among the guards,
Passepartout on the other began to loosen the bricks so as to make an
Passepartout and the guide
Fogg and Sir Francis.
Sir Francis shook his fists, Passepartout
tranquil Fogg waited, without betraying any emotion.
"Stop," said Fogg.
"But what can you hope to do?" asked Sir Francis.
Sir Francis would have liked to read Phileas Fogg's eyes.
This would be utter folly, and it was hard to admit that Fogg was such
Meanwhile Passepartout, who had perched himself on the lower branches
The hours passed, and the lighter shades now announced the approach of
of which Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis espied the victim.
seizing Mr. Fogg's hand, found in it an open knife.
Phileas Fogg and his companions, mingling in the rear ranks of the
crowd, followed; and in two minutes they reached the banks of the
At this moment Sir Francis and the guide seized Phileas Fogg, who, in
Fogg and Sir Francis stood erect, the Parsee bowed his head, and
Passepartout was, no doubt, scarcely less stupefied.
The resuscitated rajah approached Sir Francis and Mr. Fogg, and, in an
It was Passepartout himself, who had slipped upon the pyre in the midst
It was Passepartout who, playing
noise, and a ball which whizzed through Phileas Fogg's hat, apprised
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG DESCENDS THE WHOLE LENGTH OF THE BEAUTIFUL VALLEY
The rash exploit had been accomplished; and for an hour Passepartout
hand, and his master said, "Well done!" which, from him, was high
commendation; to which Passepartout replied that all the credit of the
affair belonged to Mr. Fogg.
Indian woman, she had been unconscious throughout of what was passing,
seven o'clock, the young woman being still in a state of complete
Fogg that, should Aouda remain in India, she would inevitably fall
Phileas Fogg replied that he would reflect upon the matter.
The station at Allahabad was reached about ten o'clock, and, the
able to arrive in time to take the steamer which left Calcutta the next
day, October 25th, at noon, for Hong Kong.
The young woman was placed in one of the waiting-rooms of the station,
whilst Passepartout was charged with purchasing for her various
Passepartout started off forthwith, and
Passepartout made it a point, as he made his purchases, to take a good
Passepartout in vain looked about him for such a bazaar as he used to
The train was about to start from Allahabad, and Mr. Fogg proceeded to
more; which astonished Passepartout, who remembered all that his master
"Parsee," said he to the guide, "you have been serviceable and devoted.
"Take him, guide," returned Mr. Fogg, "and I shall still be your
"Good!" exclaimed Passepartout.
The elephant grunted out his satisfaction, and, clasping Passepartout
Passepartout, not in the least alarmed, caressed the animal, which
Soon after, Phileas Fogg, Sir Francis Cromarty, and Passepartout,
set about fully reviving her with a little liquor, and then Sir Francis
Phileas Fogg had not hesitated to risk his life to save her, and
Passepartout's rash idea.
Mr. Fogg said nothing; while Passepartout,
Phileas Fogg understood what was passing in Aouda's mind, and offered,
At half-past twelve the train stopped at Benares.
India, stands quite unpoetically on the solid earth, Passepartout
adieu to Phileas Fogg, wishing him all success, and expressing the hope
Mr. Fogg lightly pressed him by the hand.
parting of Aouda, who did not forget what she owed to Sir Francis,
betrayed more warmth; and, as for Passepartout, he received a hearty
The railway, on leaving Benares, passed for a while along the valley of
The panorama passed before their eyes like a flash, save when the steam
Night came on; the train passed on at full speed, in the midst of the
Calcutta was reached at seven in the morning, and the packet left for
Hong Kong at noon; so that Phileas Fogg had five hours before him.
But it is not to be supposed that Phileas Fogg
The train entered the station, and Passepartout jumping out first, was
followed by Mr. Fogg, who assisted his fair companion to descend.
Phileas Fogg intended to proceed at once to the Hong Kong steamer, in
said, "Mr. Phileas Fogg?"
"Is this man your servant?" added the policeman, pointing to
Mr. Fogg betrayed no surprise whatever.
Passepartout tried to reason about the matter, but the policeman tapped
him with his stick, and Mr. Fogg made him a signal to obey.
Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout were conducted to a palkigahri, a
"Why, we are prisoners!" exclaimed Passepartout, falling into a chair.
Aouda, with an emotion she tried to conceal, said to Mr. Fogg: "Sir,
Phileas Fogg contented himself with saying that it was impossible.
"But the steamer leaves at noon!" observed Passepartout, nervously.
"We shall be on board by noon," replied his master, placidly.
It was said so positively that Passepartout could not help muttering to
At half-past eight the door opened, the policeman appeared, and,
Mr. Fogg and his two companions took their places on a bench opposite
Obadiah, a fat, round man, followed by the clerk, entered.
Passepartout was getting nervous, for the hands on the face of the big
"Phileas Fogg?" demanded Oysterpuff.
"Present," responded Passepartout.
"Good," said the judge.
days on the trains from Bombay."
"But of what are we accused?" asked Passepartout, impatiently.
"I am an English subject, sir," said Mr. Fogg, "and I have the right—"
"That's it," muttered Passepartout; "these are the rogues who were
Phileas Fogg and his servant, who were accused of having violated a
"Yes, sir," replied Mr. Fogg, consulting his watch, "and I admit it."
"Yes," cried Passepartout, warmly; "at the pagoda of Pillaji, where
"Bombay?" cried Passepartout.
"My shoes!" cried Passepartout, in his surprise permitting this
Fix the detective, had foreseen the advantage which Passepartout's
the young widow, Fix and the priests reached the Indian capital before
Mr. Fogg and his servant, the magistrates having been already warned by
when he learned that Phileas Fogg had not made his appearance in
For twenty-four hours Fix watched the station with feverish
anxiety; at last he was rewarded by seeing Mr. Fogg and Passepartout
Had Passepartout been a little less preoccupied, he would have espied
Judge Obadiah had unfortunately caught Passepartout's rash exclamation,
"Admitted," replied Mr. Fogg, coldly.
sternly the religions of the Indian people, and as the man Passepartout
Bombay, on the 20th of October, I condemn the said Passepartout to
"Three hundred pounds!" cried Passepartout, startled at the largeness
paid servant, I condemn Phileas Fogg to a week's imprisonment and a
Fix rubbed his hands softly with satisfaction; if Phileas Fogg could be
Passepartout was stupefied.
A wager of twenty thousand pounds lost, because he, like a
Phileas Fogg, as self-composed as if the judgment did not in the least
Fix's blood ran cold, but he resumed his composure when he heard the
"I will pay it at once," said Mr. Fogg, taking a roll of bank-bills
from the carpet-bag, which Passepartout had by him, and placing them on
"Come!" said Phileas Fogg to his servant.
"But let them at least give me back my shoes!" cried Passepartout
Mr. Fogg, offering his arm to Aouda, then departed, followed by the
Fix still nourished hopes that the robber
Fogg's traces.
That gentleman took a carriage, and the party were soon
Fogg was an hour in advance of time.
Fix saw them leave the carriage
leaving London, what with travelling expenses, bribes, the purchase of
the elephant, bails, and fines, Mr. Fogg had already spent more than
IN WHICH FIX DOES NOT SEEM TO UNDERSTAND IN THE LEAST WHAT IS SAID TO
Calcutta to Hong Kong only comprised some three thousand five hundred
miles, occupying from ten to twelve days, and the young woman was not
During the first days of the journey Aouda became better acquainted
her regularly each day at certain hours, not so much to talk himself,
what to make of him, though Passepartout had given her some hints of
Phileas Fogg her life, and she always regarded him through the exalting
Aouda was a relative of this great man, and
Fogg essayed to calm her anxieties, and to assure her that everything
upon him; but the intractable Fogg, as reserved as ever, did not seem
The first few days of the voyage passed prosperously, amid favourable
weather and propitious winds, and they soon came in sight of the great
What was detective Fix, so unluckily drawn on from country to country,
Calcutta without being seen by Passepartout, after leaving orders that,
awakening Passepartout's suspicions, who thought him still at Bombay.
All the detective's hopes and wishes were now centred on Hong Kong; for
America offered to Fogg an almost certain refuge.
should at last make its appearance at Hong Kong, Fix could arrest him
Fix thought over these probabilities during the long hours which he
warrant will be at Hong Kong, in which case I shall arrest my man, or
Fix made up his mind that, if worst came to worst, he would make a
confidant of Passepartout, and tell him what kind of a fellow his
That Passepartout was not Fogg's accomplice, he was
A word from Passepartout to
the Rangoon, in company with Phileas Fogg, gave him new material for
What combination of events had made her Fogg's
Had they met accidentally, or had Fogg gone
for Mr. Fogg at Hong Kong that he could not escape by paying any amount
But could he even wait till they reached Hong Kong?
Fix decided that he must warn the English authorities, and signal the
question Passepartout.
and, as there was no time to lose, Fix prepared to make himself known.
It was now the 30th of October, and on the following day the Rangoon
Fix emerged from his cabin and went on deck.
"What, Monsieur Fix, are you on board?" returned the really astonished
Passepartout, recognising his crony of the Mongolia.
at Bombay, and here you are, on the way to Hong Kong!
"No, no," replied Fix; "I shall stop at Hong Kong—at least for some
"Hum!" said Passepartout, who seemed for an instant perplexed.
"As well and as punctual as ever, not a day behind time!
Fix, you don't know that we have a young lady with us."
"A young lady?" replied the detective, not seeming to comprehend what
Passepartout thereupon recounted Aouda's history, the affair at the
Bombay pagoda, the purchase of the elephant for two thousand pounds,
restoration of Mr. Fogg and himself to liberty on bail.
that Passepartout related; and the later was charmed to find so
"But does your master propose to carry this young woman to Europe?"
"Nothing to be done there," said Fix to himself, concealing his
The detective and Passepartout met often on deck after this interview,
divulge any more facts concerning Mr. Fogg.
that mysterious gentleman once or twice; but Mr. Fogg usually confined
Passepartout began very seriously to conjecture what strange chance
kept Fix still on the route that his master was pursuing.
following Mr. Fogg's tracks step by step.
Passepartout was ready to wager his Indian shoes—which he religiously
preserved—that Fix would also leave Hong Kong at the same time with
could have imagined that Phileas Fogg was being tracked as a robber
solution of every mystery, Passepartout suddenly discovered an
Fix, he thought, could only be an agent of Mr. Fogg's
thing, either, to be spying Mr. Fogg, who is so honourable a man!
Passepartout, enchanted with his discovery, resolved to say nothing to
anchor at Singapore the next day at four a.m., to receive coal, having
gained half a day on the prescribed time of her arrival.
Fix, who suspected Mr. Fogg's every movement, followed them cautiously,
without being himself perceived; while Passepartout, laughing in his
by a sleek pair of New Holland horses, carried Phileas Fogg and Aouda
After a drive of two hours through the country, Aouda and Mr. Fogg
Passepartout, who had been purchasing several dozen mangoes—a fruit
Hong Kong, which is a little English colony near the Chinese coast.
Phileas Fogg hoped to accomplish the journey in six days, so as to be
in time for the steamer which would leave on the 6th of November for
time which resulted from this cause, while it nearly drove Passepartout
Passepartout blamed the captain, the engineer, and the crew, and
"You are in a great hurry, then," said Fix to him one day, "to reach
"Mr. Fogg, I suppose, is anxious to catch the steamer for Yokohama?"
"You're a sly dog!" said Passepartout, winking at him.
This expression rather disturbed Fix, without his knowing why.
how could Passepartout have discovered that he was a detective?
Passepartout went still further the next day; he could not hold his
"Mr. Fix," said he, in a bantering tone, "shall we be so unfortunate as
"Why," responded Fix, a little embarrassed, "I don't know; perhaps—"
Fix looked intently at his companion, whose countenance was as serene
But Passepartout persisted in
"Yes, and no," returned Fix; "there is good and bad luck in such
"Oh, I am quite sure of that!" cried Passepartout, laughing heartily.
Fix, fairly puzzled, descended to his cabin and gave himself up to his
Fix spent several hours turning these
persuading himself that Fogg was ignorant of his presence, and then
to deal plainly with Passepartout.
that last foothold of English territory, he, Fix, would tell
Such was the situation between Fix and Passepartout.
Fogg moved about above them in the most majestic and unconscious
the charms of Aouda failed to act, to Passepartout's great
It was every day an increasing wonder to Passepartout, who read in
Aouda's eyes the depths of her gratitude to his master.
clearly no trace of such a thing; while poor Passepartout existed in
One day he was leaning on the railing of the engine-room, and was
this made Passepartout indignant.
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG, PASSEPARTOUT, AND FIX GO EACH ABOUT HIS BUSINESS
Kong twenty hours behind time, and more if the storm lasted.
Phileas Fogg gazed at the tempestuous sea, which seemed to be
hours, by making him too late for the Yokohama boat, would almost
Fix did not look at the state of things in the same light.
that Fogg would be obliged to remain some days at Hong Kong; and now
Passepartout was enraged beyond expression by the unpropitious weather.
at his master's service; steamers and railways obeyed him; wind and
Passepartout was as much excited as if the twenty thousand pounds were
for, had he betrayed it, Passepartout could scarcely have restrained
Passepartout remained on deck as long as the tempest lasted, being
Passepartout cleared up with the weather.
Phileas Fogg was twenty-four hours behind-hand, and the Yokohama
The pilot went on board at six, and took his place on the bridge, to
Passepartout longed to ask him if the steamer had left for Yokohama;
Fix who—the sly rascal!—tried to console him by saying that Mr. Fogg
would be in time if he took the next boat; but this only put
Passepartout in a passion.
Mr. Fogg, bolder than his servant, did not hesitate to approach the
pilot, and tranquilly ask him if he knew when a steamer would leave
"Ah!" said Mr. Fogg, without betraying any astonishment.
Passepartout, who heard what passed, would willingly have embraced the
"What is the steamer's name?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"Thank you," returned Mr. Fogg, descending mathematically to the saloon.
Passepartout clasped the pilot's hand and shook it heartily in his
The pilot probably does not know to this day why his responses won him
Chance had strangely favoured Phileas Fogg, for had not the Carnatic
was, it is true, twenty-four hours behind his time; but this could not
The steamer which crossed the Pacific from Yokohama to San Francisco
sail until the latter reached Yokohama; and if Mr. Fogg was twenty-four
hours late on reaching Yokohama, this time would no doubt be easily
himself, then, about twenty-four hours behind-hand, thirty-five days
The Carnatic was announced to leave Hong Kong at five the next morning.
Mr. Fogg had sixteen hours in which to attend to his business there,
A room was engaged for the young woman, and Mr. Fogg,
He instructed Passepartout to remain at the hotel
until his return, that Aouda might not be left entirely alone.
Mr. Fogg repaired to the Exchange, where, he did not doubt, every one
Phileas Fogg returned to the hotel, begged a moment's
"What ought I to do, Mr. Fogg?"
Passepartout, delighted that the young woman, who was very gracious to
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT TAKES A TOO GREAT INTEREST IN HIS MASTER, 
Hong Kong is an island which came into the possession of the English by
Passepartout wandered, with his hands in his pockets, towards the
Passepartout noticed in the crowd a number of the
Passepartout, without exactly knowing
"This is bad," muttered Passepartout, "for the gentlemen of the Reform
reach Hong Kong for several days; and, this being the last English
territory on Mr. Fogg's route, the robber would escape, unless he could
"Well, Monsieur Fix," said Passepartout, "have you decided to go with
"Yes," returned Fix, through his set teeth.
"Good!" exclaimed Passepartout, laughing heartily.
They entered the steamer office and secured cabins for four persons.
on the Carnatic having been completed, the steamer would leave that
"That will suit my master all the better," said Passepartout.
Fix now decided to make a bold move; he resolved to tell Passepartout
It seemed to be the only possible means of keeping Phileas Fogg
several days longer at Hong Kong.
Fix and Passepartout saw that they were in a smoking-house haunted by
that Fix and Passepartout, in search of a friendly glass, found
Passepartout had no money, but willingly accepted Fix's
invitation in the hope of returning the obligation at some future time.
justice, whilst Fix observed him with close attention.
about the journey, and Passepartout was especially merry at the idea
that Fix was going to continue it with them.
Fix caught him by the arm, and said, "Wait a moment."
"A serious talk!" cried Passepartout, drinking up the little wine that
Passepartout, at this, looked attentively at his companion.
Fix placed his hand upon Passepartout's arm, and, lowering his voice,
"Parbleu!" said Passepartout, smiling.
"Useless!" said Fix.
"Of course I do," returned Passepartout.
"Fifty-five thousand!" answered Fix, pressing his companion's hand.
"Has Monsieur Fogg dared—fifty-five
Fix pushed Passepartout back in his chair, and resumed: "Fifty-five
"Help you?" cried Passepartout, whose eyes were standing wide open.
"Yes; help me keep Mr. Fogg here for two or three days."
following my master and suspecting his honour, but they must try to put
waylay Mr. Fogg and put his money in their pockets!"
"It's a conspiracy, then," cried Passepartout, who became more and more
"Members of the Reform Club!" continued Passepartout.
Monsieur Fix, that my master is an honest man, and that, when he makes
"But who do you think I am?" asked Fix, looking at him intently.
ago, I've taken good care to say nothing about it to Mr. Fogg."
"Nothing," replied Passepartout, again emptying his glass.
The detective passed his hand across his forehead, hesitating before he
Passepartout's mistake seemed
the servant was not the master's accomplice, as Fix had been inclined
He had no time to lose: Fogg must be detained at Hong Kong, so he
"Listen to me," said Fix abruptly.
"Bah!" retorted Passepartout, with an air of raillery.
Passepartout was speechless with astonishment when Fix displayed this
"Mr. Fogg's wager," resumed Fix, "is only a pretext, of which you and
thousand pounds was committed at the Bank of England by a person whose
answers exactly to that of Mr. Phileas Fogg."
"What nonsense!" cried Passepartout, striking the table with his fist.
Passepartout, overcome by what he had heard, held his head between his
hands, and did not dare to look at the detective.
saviour of Aouda, that brave and generous man, a robber!
Passepartout essayed to
"See here," replied Fix; "I have tracked Mr. Fogg to this place, but as
"Never!" replied Passepartout, who tried to rise, but fell back,
Passepartout felt himself yielding more and more to the effects of the
Fix slipped one into Passepartout's hand.
"At last!" said Fix, seeing Passepartout unconscious.
And, after paying his bill, Fix left the tavern.
IN WHICH FIX COMES FACE TO FACE WITH PHILEAS FOGG
While these events were passing at the opium-house, Mr. Fogg,
escorting Aouda about the streets of the English quarter, making the
well for an Englishman like Mr. Fogg to make the tour of the world with
Mr. Fogg absorbed himself throughout the evening in the perusal of The
Times and Illustrated London News.
steamer was not to leave for Yokohama until the next morning, he did
When Passepartout did not appear
When Passepartout did not appear
the next morning to answer his master's bell, Mr. Fogg, not betraying
Mr. Fogg and Aouda got into the
Fogg then learned that the Carnatic had sailed the evening before.
It was Fix, who, bowing, addressed Mr. Fogg:  "Were you not, like me,
sir, a passenger by the Rangoon, which arrived yesterday?"
"I was, sir," replied Mr. Fogg coldly.
"Do you know where he is, sir?" asked Aouda anxiously.
repairs being completed, left Hong Kong twelve hours before the stated
As he said "a week" Fix felt his heart leap for joy.
Fogg detained at
may be imagined when he heard Mr. Fogg say, in his placid voice, "But
And, offering his arm to Aouda, he directed his steps toward the docks
Fix, stupefied, followed; it
seemed as if he were attached to Mr. Fogg by an invisible thread.
For three hours Phileas Fogg wandered about
But Mr. Fogg, far from being discouraged, was continuing his search,
The sailor leaned on the railing, opened his eyes wide, and said, "Is
"I offer you a hundred pounds per day, and an additional reward of two
hundred pounds if I reach Yokohama in time."
The pilot walked away a little distance, and gazed out to sea,
Mr. Fogg turned to Aouda and asked her, "You would not be afraid, would
"Not with you, Mr. Fogg," was her answer.
"Well, pilot?" said Mr. Fogg.
my little boat of scarcely twenty tons on so long a voyage at this time
Besides, we could not reach Yokohama in time, for it is
"Only sixteen hundred," said Mr. Fogg.
"How?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"Pilot," said Mr. Fogg, "I must take the American steamer at Yokohama,
before us, that is ninety-six hours; and in that time, if we had good
"In an hour; as soon as provisions could be got aboard and the sails
"Yes; John Bunsby, master of the Tankadere."
"Here are two hundred pounds on account sir," added Phileas Fogg,
turning to Fix, "if you would like to take advantage—"
In half an hour we shall go on board."
"But poor Passepartout?" urged Aouda, who was much disturbed by the
"I shall do all I can to find him," replied Phileas Fogg.
While Fix, in a feverish, nervous state, repaired to the pilot-boat,
the others directed their course to the police-station at Hong Kong.
Phileas Fogg there gave Passepartout's description, and left a sum of
Phileas Fogg and Aouda went on board, where they found Fix already
"I am sorry to have nothing better to offer you," said Mr. Fogg to Fix,
kindness of Mr. Fogg.
The sails and the English flag were hoisted at ten minutes past three.
Mr. Fogg and Aouda, who were seated on deck, cast a last glance at the
quay, in the hope of espying Passepartout.
John Bunsby, master, at length gave the order to start, and the
IN WHICH THE MASTER OF THE "TANKADERE" RUNS GREAT RISK 
passengers to Yokohama, since he was paid a certain sum per day; but he
Late in the day they passed through the capricious channels of Hong
"I do not need, pilot," said Phileas Fogg, when they got into the open
Phileas Fogg, with body erect and legs wide apart, standing like a
Fix, seated in the bow, gave himself up to meditation.
from his fellow-travellers, knowing Mr. Fogg's taciturn tastes;
besides, he did not quite like to talk to the man whose favours he had
Fogg would not stop at Yokohama, but would at once take the boat for
Fogg's plan appeared to him the simplest in the world.
Instead of sailing directly from England to the United States, like a
events, there was one thing to be thankful for; Passepartout was not
Phileas Fogg was also thinking of Passepartout, who had so strangely
Mr. Fogg and Aouda descended into the cabin at midnight, having been
Mr. Fogg and Aouda, happily unaffected by the roughness of the sea, ate
When the meal was over, he took Mr. Fogg apart, and said, "sir"—this
"Let us not speak of that, sir," replied Mr. Fogg.
"No, sir," repeated Mr. Fogg, in a tone which did not admit of a reply.
Fix, as he bowed, had a stifled feeling, and, going forward, where he
He several times assured Mr. Fogg that they would reach Shanghai
accomplished from Hong Kong, and Mr. Fogg might hope that he would be
voice to Mr. Fogg, "Shall I speak out to your honour?"
"Is the wind north or south?" asked Mr. Fogg quietly.
"Oh, if you take it that way," said John Bunsby, "I've nothing more to
Neither Mr. Fogg, Fix,
speed to four times that of a locomotive going on full steam would be
for Phileas Fogg, it seemed just as if the typhoon were a part of his
Up to this time the Tankadere had always held her course to the north;
thought awhile, and then asked his crew if it was not time to slacken
After a consultation he approached Mr. Fogg, and said, "I
"I know of but one," returned Mr. Fogg tranquilly.
More than once Mr. Fogg rushed to protect her from
That very evening Mr. Fogg was due at
every one—Phileas Fogg, no doubt, excepted—felt his heart beat with
The boat must keep up an average of nine miles an hour,
breeze, coming from the coast, and after it passed the sea became
Mr. Fogg was perfectly tranquil; and yet his whole fortune was
steamer, leaving for Yokohama at the appointed time.
"Signal her!" said Phileas Fogg quietly.
the pilot was about to apply a red-hot coal to the touchhole, Mr. Fogg
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT FINDS OUT THAT, EVEN AT THE ANTIPODES, 
The Carnatic, setting sail from Hong Kong at half-past six on the 7th
engaged by Phileas Fogg.
The next day a passenger with a half-stupefied eye, staggering gait,
It was Passepartout; and what had happened to him was as follows:
Shortly after Fix left the opium den, two waiters had lifted the
unconscious Passepartout, and had carried him to the bed reserved for
Three hours later, pursued even in his dreams by a fixed
Passepartout had but few steps to go; and, rushing upon the plank, he
and Passepartout did not wake until they were one hundred and fifty
evening before, Fix's revelation, and the opium-house.
Then, as Fix occurred to him: "As for that rascal, I hope we are well
A detective on the track of Mr. Fogg, accused of
Mr. Fogg is no more a robber than
Should he divulge Fix's real errand to his master?
until Mr. Fogg reached London again, and then impart to him that an
The first thing to do was to find Mr. Fogg, and apologise
Passepartout got up and proceeded, as well as he could with the rolling
his master or Aouda.
and Mr. Fogg has probably found some partners at whist."
only, however, to ask the purser the number of his master's state-room.
"I beg your pardon," said Passepartout persistently.
Passepartout scanned the list, but his master's name was not upon it.
Passepartout had for an instant feared that he was on the wrong boat;
fault, then, that Mr. Fogg and Aouda had missed the steamer.
moment Mr. Fogg was certainly ruined, his bet was lost, and he himself
At this thought Passepartout tore his
Ah, if Fix ever came within his reach, what a settling of
After his first depression, Passepartout became calmer, and began to
fell to at meals with an appetite, and ate for Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and
Passepartout went timidly ashore on this so curious territory of the
Passepartout saw, too, begging friars, long-robed pilgrims, and simple
Passepartout wandered for several hours in the midst of this motley
Night came, and Passepartout re-entered
Passepartout thought seemed like ambassadors, succeeded the bustling
Each time a company passed, Passepartout chuckled, and said to
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT'S NOSE BECOMES OUTRAGEOUSLY LONG
The next morning poor, jaded, famished Passepartout said to himself
Passepartout therefore decided to wait several hours; and, as he was
It was only after a long search that Passepartout discovered a native
liked the European costume, and ere long Passepartout issued from his
seven hundred miles of the Pacific which lay between Japan and the New
Passepartout was not the man to let an idea go begging, and directed
"The United States!" said Passepartout; "that's just what I want!"
A quarter of an hour later he stopped before a large cabin,
Passepartout entered and asked for Mr. Batulcar, who straightway
"What do you want?" said he to Passepartout, whom he at first took for
"Would you like a servant, sir?" asked Passepartout.
"Why," replied Passepartout, a little vexed that his nationality should
"Yes," returned Passepartout, who had formerly been wont to sing in the
I think so," replied Passepartout, recalling the exercises of
necessary, Passepartout had been chosen to take his place.
It was Passepartout's fault.
"Very well; then let us go to the steamer, young man!"
Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout passed through the lobby of the
the pyramid; and Phileas Fogg appeased him by giving him a handful of
At half-past six, the very hour of departure, Mr. Fogg and Aouda,
followed by Passepartout, who in his hurry had retained his wings, and
nose six feet long, stepped upon the American steamer.
FOGG AND PARTY CROSS THE PACIFIC OCEAN
captain of the Yokohama steamer, who, espying the flag at half-mast,
ascended the steamer with Aouda and Fix; and they started at once for
Phileas Fogg lost no time in going on board the Carnatic, where he
betrayed no emotion—that Passepartout, a Frenchman, had really arrived
The San Francisco steamer was announced to leave that very evening, and
it became necessary to find Passepartout, if possible, without delay.
Mr. Fogg applied in vain to the French and English consuls, and, after
wandering through the streets a long time, began to despair of finding
would not have recognised Passepartout in the eccentric mountebank's
All this Passepartout learned from Aouda, who recounted to him what had
taken place on the voyage from Hong Kong to Shanghai on the Tankadere,
Passepartout did not change countenance on hearing this name.
thought that the time had not yet arrived to divulge to his master what
Mr. Fogg heard this narrative coldly, without a word; and then
She was a large paddle-wheel steamer of two thousand
By making twelve miles an hour, she
Mr. Fogg was as calm and
She often chatted with Passepartout, who did not fail to perceive the
he never exhausted his eulogies of Phileas Fogg's honesty, generosity,
A railway train from San Francisco to New York, and a
transatlantic steamer from New York to Liverpool, would doubtless bring
On the ninth day after leaving Yokohama, Phileas Fogg had traversed
Mr. Fogg had, it is true,
straight one, and Fix was no longer there to put obstacles in their way!
It happened also, on the 23rd of November, that Passepartout made a
Now, on this day, though he had not changed the hands,
He would have liked to know what Fix would
"The rogue told me a lot of stories," repeated Passepartout, "about the
Passepartout was ignorant that, if the face of his watch had been
divided into twenty-four hours, like the Italian clocks, he would have
o'clock in the evening, that is, the twenty-first hour after midnight
this purely physical effect, Passepartout would not have admitted, even
board at that moment, Passepartout would have joined issue with him on
Where was Fix at that moment?
On reaching Yokohama, the detective, leaving Mr. Fogg, whom he expected
to meet again during the day, had repaired at once to the English
"Well," thought Fix, after a moment of anger, "my warrant is not good
there when Mr. Fogg and Aouda arrived.
recognised Passepartout, despite his theatrical disguise.
Fogg's servant.
On that very day, however, he met Passepartout face to face on the
When Passepartout had finished, he found himself relieved and
Fix got up in a somewhat rumpled condition, and, looking at
Passepartout seemed to be vanquished by Fix's coolness, for he quietly
"You have given me a thrashing," said Fix.
Up to this time I have been Mr. Fogg's adversary.
"Aha!" cried Passepartout; "you are convinced he is an honest man?"
"No," replied Fix coldly, "I think him a rascal.
As long as Mr. Fogg was on English ground, it was for my
Passepartout listened, with closed fists.
"Now," resumed Fix, "Mr. Fogg seems to be going back to England.
Passepartout listened very attentively to Fix, and was convinced that
"Friends?—no," replied Passepartout; "but allies, perhaps.
"Agreed," said the detective quietly.
Eleven days later, on the 3rd of December, the General Grant entered
Mr. Fogg had neither gained nor lost a single day.
It was seven in the morning when Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout set
Passepartout, in his joy on reaching at last the American continent,
Mr. Fogg, on reaching shore, proceeded to find out at what hour the
first train left for New York, and learned that this was at six o'clock
entered it, while Passepartout mounted the box beside the driver, and
From his exalted position Passepartout observed with much curiosity the
Passepartout was surprised at all he saw.
When Passepartout reached the International Hotel, it did not seem to
This seemed "very American" to Passepartout.
refreshment-rooms were comfortable, and Mr. Fogg and Aouda, installing
After breakfast, Mr. Fogg, accompanied by Aouda, started for the
met Passepartout, who asked him if it would not be well, before taking
Mr. Fogg thought it a useless precaution,
chance in the world," he met Fix.
Had Mr. Fogg and himself crossed the Pacific
At least Fix felt honoured to
Mr. Fogg replied that the honour would be his; and the detective—who
them in their walk about San Francisco—a request which Mr. Fogg
were floating in the wind; while loud cries were heard on every hand.
It was a political meeting; at least so Fix conjectured, who said to
Mr. Fogg, "Perhaps we had better not mingle with the crowd.
"Yes," returned Mr. Fogg; "and blows, even if they are political are
Phileas Fogg could not imagine.
"It is evidently a meeting," said Fix, "and its object must be an
"Perhaps," replied Mr. Fogg, simply.
Aouda, leaning upon Mr. Fogg's arm, observed the tumultuous scene with
surprise, while Fix asked a man near him what the cause of it all was.
the air, and Mr. Fogg thought he even heard the crack of revolvers
"It would be prudent for us to retire," said Fix, who was anxious that
Mr. Fogg should not receive any injury, at least until they got back to
"An English subject—" began Mr. Fogg.
Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Fix found
Fogg and Fix were roughly hustled in their attempts to protect their
band, raised his clenched fist to strike Mr. Fogg, whom he would have
given a crushing blow, had not Fix rushed in and received it in his
"Yankee!" exclaimed Mr. Fogg, darting a contemptuous look at the
"Thanks," said Mr. Fogg to the detective, as soon as they were out of
Fix; "but let us go."
The clothing of both Mr. Fogg and
Passepartout was waiting for his master, armed with half a dozen
Fix evidently was no longer
Fogg said to Fix, "You have not seen this Colonel Proctor again?"
"I will come back to America to find him," said Phileas Fogg calmly.
It was clear that Mr. Fogg
At a quarter before six the travellers reached the station, and found
As he was about to enter it, Mr. Fogg
"The election of a general-in-chief, no doubt?" asked Mr. Fogg.
Phileas Fogg got into the train, which started off at full speed.
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG AND PARTY TRAVEL BY THE PACIFIC RAILROAD
fixed the end of the line at Omaha, in Nebraska.
grew, on the prairies, a mile and a half a day.
On leaving Omaha, it passes along the left bank
were able to pass from one end of the train to the other.
The train left Oakland station at six o'clock.
not changed; but Passepartout was very reserved, and ready to strangle
At eight o'clock a steward entered the car and announced that the time
for going to bed had arrived; and in a few minutes the car was
miles between these cities were accomplished in six hours, and towards
The train, on leaving Sacramento, and passing the junction, Roclin,
reached at seven in the morning; and an hour later the dormitory was
From this point the road, running along Humboldt River, passed
Having breakfasted, Mr. Fogg and his companions resumed their places in
form an insurmountable obstacle to the passage of the trains; thousands
of them have been seen passing over the track for hours together, in
This happened, indeed, to the train in which Mr. Fogg was travelling.
Phileas Fogg, who had the most reason of all to be in a hurry, remained
Passepartout was furious at the delay they occasioned, and longed to
should like to know if Mr. Fogg foresaw this mishap in his programme!
It was eight o'clock when the train passed through the defiles of the
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT UNDERGOES, AT A SPEED OF TWENTY MILES AN HOUR, 
Passepartout, about nine o'clock, went out upon the platform to take
of gold, and Passepartout was amusing himself by calculating its value
Passepartout approached and read one of these notices, which stated
"I'll go," said Passepartout to himself.
Passepartout took one of the
Neither Mr. Fogg nor Fix cared to attend.
Ten hearers only were now left, among them honest Passepartout, who was
Passepartout was now the only person left in the car, and the Elder,
brother," continued the Elder, fixing his angry eyes upon his single
"No!" replied Passepartout courageously, in his turn retiring from the
half-past twelve it reached the northwest border of the Great Salt
The train reached Ogden at two o'clock, where it rested for six hours,
Mr. Fogg and his party had time to pay a visit to Salt Lake City,
Passepartout could not behold without a certain fright these women,
at the station, took their places in the train, and the whistle sounded
Trains, like time and tide, stop for no one.
Passepartout, who had been anxiously watching this amateur gymnast,
When the Mormon had recovered his breath, Passepartout ventured to ask
"One, sir," replied the Mormon, raising his arms heavenward —"one, and
IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT DOES NOT SUCCEED IN MAKING ANYBODY LISTEN TO
The train, on leaving Great Salt Lake at Ogden, passed northward for an
hour as far as Weber River, having completed nearly nine hundred miles
Passepartout grew more and more impatient as they went on, while Fix
Phileas Fogg himself to be beyond the danger of delays and accidents,
At ten o'clock at night the train stopped at Fort Bridger station, and
a quarter of an hour at Green River station.
however, annoyed Passepartout; for the accumulation of snow, by
Fogg's tour.
Proctor, the same who had so grossly insulted Phileas Fogg at the San
the man whom Mr. Fogg desired, sooner or later, to call to account for
that Phileas Fogg should not perceive his adversary.
Aouda seized a moment when Mr. Fogg was asleep to tell Fix and
Passepartout whom she had seen.
"That Proctor on this train!" cried Fix.
madam; before he settles with Mr. Fogg; he has got to deal with me!
"And, besides," added Passepartout, "I'll take charge of him, colonel
"Mr. Fix," resumed Aouda, "Mr. Fogg will allow no one to avenge him.
He said that he would come back to America to find this man.
"You are right, madam," replied Fix; "a meeting between them might ruin
Whether he were victorious or beaten, Mr. Fogg would be delayed,
"And," added Passepartout, "that would play the game of the gentlemen
In four days we shall be in New York.
master does not leave this car during those four days, we may hope that
Mr. Fogg had just woke up, and was looking
Soon after Passepartout, without being heard by his
master or Aouda, whispered to the detective, "Would you really fight
"I would do anything," replied Fix, in a tone which betrayed determined
Passepartout felt something like a shudder shoot through his frame, but
Was there any means of detaining Mr. Fogg in the car, to avoid a
moments, he said to Mr. Fogg, "These are long and slow hours, sir, that
"Yes," replied Mr. Fogg; "but they pass."
"You were in the habit of playing whist," resumed Fix, "on the
"Certainly, sir," Aouda quickly replied; "I understand whist.
"As you please, sir," replied Phileas Fogg, heartily glad to resume his
Passepartout was dispatched in search of the steward, and soon returned
received some compliments on her playing from Mr. Fogg.
"Now," thought Passepartout, "we've got him.
At eleven in the morning the train had reached the dividing ridge of
the waters at Bridger Pass, seven thousand five hundred and twenty-four
At half-past twelve the travellers caught sight for an instant of Fort
After a comfortable breakfast, served in the car, Mr. Fogg and his
Passepartout put his head out of the door, but
Aouda and Fix feared that Mr. Fogg might take it into his head to get
Passepartout rushed out of the car.
The train had stopped before a red signal which blocked the way.
the station-master at Medicine Bow, the next stopping place, had sent
Passepartout, joining the group, heard the signal-man say, "No!
Passepartout, not daring to apprise his master of what he heard,
train, but it is not likely that it will reach Medicine Bow in less
"Six hours!" cried Passepartout.
"But it is only a mile from here," said one of the passengers.
and the conductor; and Passepartout, who was furious, was not
certainly have thus attracted Phileas Fogg's attention if he had not
Passepartout found that he could not avoid telling his master what had
Passepartout stopped short, and eagerly listened to the engineer.
"The devil!" muttered Passepartout.
Passepartout was astounded, and, though ready to attempt anything to
"Eighty chances!" replied the passenger, turning his back on him.
"I know it," said Passepartout, turning to another passenger, "but a
"Doubtless," urged Passepartout, "we can pass, but perhaps it would be
"I know—I see," repeated Passepartout; "but it would be, if not more
"Yes, all aboard!" repeated Passepartout, and immediately.
cross the bridge on foot, and let the train come after!"
Passepartout took his seat without telling what had passed.
forward; the train increased its speed, and soon its rapidity became
the whole train, rushing on at the rate of a hundred miles an hour,
But scarcely had the train passed the river, when the bridge,
The train pursued its course, that evening, without interruption,
Thirteen hundred and eighty-two miles had been passed over from San
Mr. Fogg and his partners had resumed their game; no one—not even the
a not less eager whist-player than Mr. Fogg.
Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Fix raised their heads, and beheld Colonel Proctor.
Stamp Proctor and Phileas Fogg recognised each other at once.
"And who plays it," replied Phileas Fogg coolly, throwing down the ten
"Perhaps I do, as well as another," said Phileas Fogg, rising.
She seized Mr. Fogg's arm
Passepartout was ready to pounce upon the
But Fix got up,
and, going to Colonel Proctor said, "You forget that it is I with whom
"Mr. Fix," said Mr. Fogg, "pardon me, but this affair is mine, and mine
Aouda in vain attempted to retain Mr. Fogg; as vainly did the detective
Passepartout wished to throw the
Phileas Fogg left the car, and the American followed him upon the
"Sir," said Mr. Fogg to his adversary, "I am in a great
"Sir," said Mr. Fogg, very politely, "after our meeting at San
"I say six months," returned Phileas Fogg; "and I shall be at the place
"No," replied Mr. Fogg.
"No," replied Mr. Fogg.
The train will be there in an hour, and will
"Very well," said Mr. Fogg.
"Very well," said Mr. Fogg.
"Who knows?" replied Mr. Fogg, returning to the car as coolly as usual.
be feared, and begged Fix to be his second at the approaching duel, a
Mr. Fogg resumed the
Mr. Fogg rose, and, followed by Fix,
Passepartout accompanied him, carrying a
Aouda remained in the car, as pale as death.
The door of the next car opened, and Colonel Proctor appeared on the
"It would be perfectly so," replied Phileas Fogg.
"Well, we are really in America," thought Passepartout, "and the
and Passepartout felt their hearts beating as if they would crack.
Colonel Proctor and Mr. Fogg, revolvers in hand, hastily quitted their
stop the train, but not knowing how to work the regulator, had opened
The Sioux had at the same time invaded the cars, skipping like enraged
along at a speed of a hundred miles an hour.
would be masters of the train between Fort Kearney and the station
The conductor was fighting beside Mr. Fogg, when he was shot and fell.
At the same moment he cried, "Unless the train is stopped in five
"It shall be stopped," said Phileas Fogg, preparing to rush from the
"Stay, monsieur," cried Passepartout; "I will go."
Mr. Fogg had not time to stop the brave fellow, who, opening a door
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG SIMPLY DOES HIS DUTY
Three passengers including Passepartout had disappeared.
Aouda was safe; and Phileas Fogg, who had been in the thickest of the
But Passepartout was not to be found, and tears coursed down
All the passengers had got out of the train, the wheels of which were
As far as the eye could reach on the white plain behind, red
Mr. Fogg, with folded arms, remained motionless.
will find him, living or dead," said he quietly to Aouda.
"Ah, Mr.—Mr. Fogg!" cried she, clasping his hands and covering them
"Living," added Mr. Fogg, "if we do not lose a moment."
Phileas Fogg, by this resolution, inevitably sacrificed himself; he
the steamer at New York, and his bet would be certainly lost.
"Sir," said Mr. Fogg to the captain, "three passengers have
"The lives of three men are in question, sir," said Phileas Fogg.
"Very well," said Mr. Fogg, coldly.
"You, sir!" cried Fix, coming up; "you go alone in pursuit of the
"Thanks, captain," said Mr. Fogg.
"Will you let me go with you?" asked Fix.
Fix gazed attentively at Mr. Fogg,
A few moments after, Mr. Fogg pressed the young woman's hand, and,
But, before going, he had said to the
Fix did not have the same thoughts, and could scarcely conceal his
been guilty in letting Fogg go alone.
He thought of pursuing Fogg
asked for by telegraph to arrive; the train from Omaha to San Francisco
stopped an hour after, some twenty miles beyond Fort Kearney.
Omaha, for it would be dangerous to return to the train, which the
Aouda, on seeing the locomotive come up, hurried out of the station,
three hours behind time."
"And when will another train pass here from San Francisco?"
"I will not go," said Aouda.
"I will not go," said Aouda.
"I will not go," said Aouda.
Fix had heard this conversation.
leave Fort Kearney; but now that the train was there, ready to start,
Several hours passed.
Fix sat motionless on a bench in the station; he might have been
Evening came, and the little band had not returned.
Fix remained stationary in the same place, but did not sleep.
man approached and spoke to him, and the detective merely replied by
Phileas Fogg and the squad had gone southward;
fort, and half a mile off they perceived a little band returning in
Mr. Fogg was marching at their head, and just behind him were
Passepartout and the other two travellers, rescued from the Sioux.
Shortly before the detachment arrived, Passepartout and his companions
Phileas Fogg distributed the
reward he had promised to the soldiers, while Passepartout, not without
Fix, without saying a word, looked at Mr. Fogg, and it would have been
Aouda, she took her protector's hand and pressed it in her own, too
Meanwhile, Passepartout was looking about for the train; he thought he
"Gone," replied Fix.
"And when does the next train pass here?" said Phileas Fogg.
IN WHICH FIX, THE DETECTIVE, CONSIDERABLY FURTHERS THE INTERESTS OF
Phileas Fogg found himself twenty hours behind time.
At this moment the detective approached Mr. Fogg, and, looking him
"I have a purpose in asking," resumed Fix.
evening, the time that the steamer leaves for Liverpool?"
"Yes; with eleven hours to spare before the steamer left."
"On foot?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"No; on a sledge," replied Fix.
It was the man who had spoken to Fix during the night, and whose offer
Phileas Fogg did not reply at once; but Fix, having pointed out the
man, who was walking up and down in front of the station, Mr. Fogg went
An instant after, Mr. Fogg and the American, whose name was
There Mr. Fogg examined a curious vehicle, a kind of frame on two long
A high mast was fixed on
Mr. Fogg readily made a bargain with the owner of this land-craft.
Mr. Fogg in a few hours to Omaha.
open air, Mr. Fogg proposed to leave her with Passepartout at Fort
to separate from Mr. Fogg, and Passepartout was delighted with her
decision; for nothing could induce him to leave his master while Fix
conviction shaken by Phileas Fogg's return, or did he still regard him
Fix's opinion of Phileas Fogg was somewhat modified; but he was
traversed in five hours; if no accident happened the sledge might reach
could not be going at less than forty miles an hour.
Mr. Fogg had made it for Mudge's interest to reach Omaha within the
was quite clear of obstacles, and Phileas Fogg had but two things to
"Those chords give the fifth and the octave," said Mr. Fogg.
As for Passepartout, his face was as red
They would reach New York on the evening, if not on the
Passepartout even felt a strong desire to grasp his ally, Fix, by the
the only means of reaching Omaha in time; but, checked by some
Passepartout would never forget, and that was the sacrifice which Mr.
Fogg had made, without hesitation, to rescue him from the Sioux.
Fogg had risked his fortune and his life.
Passepartout, revolver in
even course, soon gained on the wolves, and ere long left the howling
impetus the wind had given it, went on half a mile further with its
Passepartout and Fix jumped off, stretched their stiffened limbs, and
aided Mr. Fogg and the young woman to descend from the sledge.
Fogg generously rewarded Mudge, whose hand Passepartout warmly grasped,
A train was ready to start when Mr. Fogg and his party reached the
station, and they only had time to get into the cars.
nothing of Omaha; but Passepartout confessed to himself that this was
Nine hundred miles separated Chicago from New York; but trains are not
Mr. Fogg passed at once from one to the other, and
11th, the train stopped in the station on the right bank of the river,
The China, for Liverpool, had started three-quarters of an hour before!
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG ENGAGES IN A DIRECT STRUGGLE WITH BAD FORTUNE
The China, in leaving, seemed to have carried off Phileas Fogg's last
Phileas Fogg's last efforts of no avail.
depart till the next day, and could not cross the Atlantic in time to
Mr. Fogg learned all this in consulting his Bradshaw, which gave him
Passepartout was crushed; it overwhelmed him to lose the boat by
would completely ruin Mr. Fogg, he overwhelmed himself with bitter
Mr. Fogg, however, did not reproach him; and, on
and the night passed, briefly to Phileas Fogg, who slept profoundly,
nine days, thirteen hours, and forty-five minutes.
Mr. Fogg left the hotel alone, after giving Passepartout instructions
of course, Phileas Fogg could make no use.
Phileas Fogg hailed a boat, got into it, and soon found himself on
"The captain?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"I am Phileas Fogg, of London."
"But the owners of the Henrietta—" resumed Phileas Fogg.
Phileas Fogg did not betray the least disappointment; but the situation
idea, for he said to the captain, "Well, will you carry me to Bordeaux?"
"I start at nine o'clock," said Captain
hack, hurry to the St. Nicholas, and return with Aouda, Passepartout,
and even the inseparable Fix was the work of a brief time, and was
performed by Mr. Fogg with the coolness which never abandoned him.
When Passepartout heard what this last voyage was going to cost, he
As for Fix, he said to himself that the Bank of England would certainly
England, even if Mr. Fogg did not throw some handfuls of bank-bills
into the sea, more than seven thousand pounds would have been spent!
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG SHOWS HIMSELF EQUAL TO THE OCCASION
An hour after, the Henrietta passed the lighthouse which marks the
During the day she skirted Long Island, passed Fire Island, and
At noon the next day, a man mounted the bridge to ascertain the
It was Phileas Fogg, Esquire.
Phileas Fogg wished to go to
Phileas Fogg wished to go to
Fogg had taken passage for Bordeaux, and, during the thirty hours he
why Phileas Fogg was in command instead of Captain Speedy; why the
Mr. Fogg manage the craft, that he had been a sailor.
As for Passepartout, he thought Mr. Fogg's manoeuvre
three thousand miles from New York to Liverpool in the nine days,
of England, might create more difficulties for Mr. Fogg than he
Passepartout was delighted.
also, the worthy fellow revolved around Fix, looking at him with a
Fix, it must be confessed, understood nothing of what was going on.
The conquest of the Henrietta, the bribery of the crew, Fogg managing
fifty-five thousand pounds might end by stealing a vessel; and Fix was
not unnaturally inclined to conclude that the Henrietta under Fogg's
Passepartout, whose duty it was to carry him his meals, courageous as
Mr. Fogg, in order not to deviate from his
vessel's speed slackened, owing to the state of the sea, the long waves
Passepartout's visage darkened with the skies, and for two days the
But Phileas Fogg was a bold
a speed of ninety miles an hour.
The 16th of December was the seventy-fifth day since Phileas Fogg's
Passepartout said nothing; but he cherished hope in secret,
On this day the engineer came on deck, went up to Mr. Fogg, and began
"Certain, sir," replied the engineer.
will consider," replied Mr. Fogg.
Passepartout understood it all; he was seized with mortal anxiety.
he, "he'll be a famous man!"  He could not help imparting to Fix what
Passepartout was on the point of vigorously resenting the epithet, the
And now what course would Phileas Fogg adopt?
evening he sent for the engineer, and said to him, "Feed all the fires
"Do not let the fires go down," replied Mr. Fogg.
Towards noon Phileas Fogg, having ascertained their position, called
Passepartout, and ordered him to go for Captain Speedy.
"Seven hundred and seven miles from Liverpool," replied Mr. Fogg, with
"—sir," continued Mr. Fogg, "to ask you to sell me your vessel."
"Here are sixty thousand," replied Phileas Fogg, handing the captain a
Mr. Fogg had taken away the match.
During this colloquy, Passepartout was as white as a sheet, and Fix
thousand pounds had been expended, and Fogg left the hull and engine to
When Andrew Speedy had pocketed the money, Mr. Fogg said to him, "Don't
thousand pounds, unless I arrive in London by a quarter before nine on
"Captain Fogg, you've got something of the Yankee about you."
was going away, when Mr. Fogg said, "The vessel now belongs to me?"
Passepartout hewed, cut, and sawed away with all his might.
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
Phileas Fogg had only
twenty-four hours more in which to get to London; that length of time
"Sir," said Captain Speedy, who was now deeply interested in Mr. Fogg's
"Ah," said Mr. Fogg, "is that place where we see the lights Queenstown?"
"Stay," replied Mr. Fogg calmly, without betraying in his features that
to Liverpool by the most rapid boats, and thus gain twelve hours on the
Phileas Fogg counted on gaining twelve hours in the same way.
there by noon, and would therefore have time to reach London before a
it then being high tide; and Phileas Fogg, after being grasped heartily
by the hand by Captain Speedy, left that gentleman on the levelled hulk
Fogg on the spot; but he did not.
abandon Mr. Fogg.
start, at half-past one; at dawn of day they were in Dublin; and they
lost no time in embarking on a steamer which, disdaining to rise upon
Phileas Fogg at last disembarked on the Liverpool quay, at twenty
But at this moment Fix came up, put his hand upon Mr. Fogg's shoulder,
and, showing his warrant, said, "You are really Phileas Fogg?"
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG AT LAST REACHES LONDON
Phileas Fogg was in prison.
Passepartout, when he saw his master arrested, would have fallen upon
Passepartout explained to her how it was that the honest
and courageous Fogg was arrested as a robber.
As for Fix, he had arrested Mr. Fogg because it was his duty, whether
Mr. Fogg were guilty or not.
The thought then struck Passepartout, that he was the cause of this new
Had he not concealed Fix's errand from his master?
his master, only to arrest him the moment he set foot on English soil.
Passepartout wept till he was blind, and felt like blowing his brains
had till a quarter before nine that evening to reach the Reform Club,
that is, nine hours and a quarter; the journey from Liverpool to London
found Mr. Fogg seated, motionless, calm, and without apparent anger,
However that may have been, Mr. Fogg carefully put his watch upon the
event, was a terrible one, and might be thus stated: if Phileas Fogg
Mr. Fogg observed that his watch
train, he could reach London and the Reform Club by a quarter before
Passepartout's voice was audible, and
Phileas Fogg's eyes brightened for an
The door swung open, and he saw Passepartout, Aouda, and Fix, who
Phileas Fogg was free!
"Well hit!" cried Passepartout, "Parbleu!
Fix, who found himself on the floor, did not utter a word.
Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout left the
Phileas Fogg asked if there was an express train about to leave for
The express train had left
Phileas Fogg then ordered a special train.
At that hour Phileas Fogg, having stimulated the engineer by the offer
of a generous reward, at last set out towards London with Aouda and his
It was necessary to make the journey in five hours and a half; and this
delays, and when Mr. Fogg stepped from the train at the terminus, all
Having made the tour of the world, he was behind-hand five minutes.
IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG DOES NOT HAVE TO REPEAT HIS ORDERS TO
PASSEPARTOUT TWICE
they had been told that Phileas Fogg had returned home.
After leaving the station, Mr. Fogg gave Passepartout instructions to
still found time to do some good on his way, to fail near the goal by a
Mr. Fogg's course, however, was fully decided upon; he knew what
A room in the house in Saville Row was set apart for Aouda, who was
which Mr. Fogg dropped, she saw that he was meditating some serious
Knowing that Englishmen governed by a fixed idea sometimes resort to
the desperate expedient of suicide, Passepartout kept a narrow watch
thought it more than time to put a stop to this expense, which he had
Mr. Fogg went to bed, but did he sleep?
Passepartout watched all night, like a
Mr. Fogg called him in the morning, and told him to get Aouda's
Passepartout, having received his orders, had nothing to do but obey
if he had warned Mr. Fogg,
and had betrayed Fix's projects to him, his master would certainly not
Passepartout could hold in no longer.
Mr. Fogg!" he cried, "why do you not curse me?
"I blame no one," returned Phileas Fogg, with perfect calmness.
Passepartout left the room, and went to find Aouda, to whom he
"Mr. Fogg is influenced
"We shall see," replied Aouda, becoming suddenly pensive.
uninhabited, and Phileas Fogg, for the first time since he had lived in
As Phileas Fogg had not appeared in the saloon on
Mr. Fogg, therefore, had no reason for going out, and so he remained at
Passepartout continually ascended and descended the
The hours were long for him.
Sometimes he thought of Fix, but no longer in anger.
Fix, like all the
world, had been mistaken in Phileas Fogg, and had only done his duty in
tracking and arresting him; while he, Passepartout.
About half-past seven in the evening Mr. Fogg sent to know if Aouda
Phileas Fogg took a chair, and sat down near the fireplace, opposite
Fogg returned was exactly
the Fogg who had gone away; there was the same calm, the same
Aouda, "Madam," said he, "will you pardon me for bringing you to
"I, Mr. Fogg!" replied Aouda, checking the pulsations of her heart.
"Please let me finish," returned Mr. Fogg.
"I know it, Mr. Fogg," replied Aouda; "and I ask you in my turn, will
"So, Mr. Fogg," resumed Aouda, "not content with rescuing me from a
"At least," said Aouda, "want should not overtake a man like you.
"I pity you, then, Mr. Fogg, for solitude is a sad thing, with no heart
"Mr. Fogg," said Aouda, rising and seizing his hand, "do you wish at
Mr. Fogg, at this, rose in his turn.
"Ah!" cried Aouda, pressing his hand to her heart.
Passepartout was summoned and appeared immediately.
held Aouda's hand in his own; Passepartout understood, and his big,
Mr. Fogg asked him if it was not too late to notify the Reverend Samuel
Passepartout smiled his most genial smile, and said, "Never too late."
"For to-morrow, Monday," said Mr. Fogg, turning to Aouda.
Passepartout hurried off as fast as his legs could carry him.
It is time to relate what a change took place in English public opinion
days before, Phileas Fogg had been a criminal, who was being
the "Phileas Fogg bonds" again became negotiable, and many new wagers
Phileas Fogg's name was once more at a premium on 'Change.
Phileas Fogg's name was once more at a premium on 'Change.
His five friends of the Reform Club passed these three days in a state
Would Phileas Fogg, whom they had forgotten,
Phileas Fogg's departure, and no news of him had been received.
detective, Fix, who had so unfortunately followed up a false scent.
Phileas Fogg, like
the hour when Phileas Fogg was due approached, the excitement rose to
The five antagonists of Phileas Fogg had met in the great saloon of the
When the clock indicated twenty minutes past eight, Andrew Stuart got
up, saying, "Gentlemen, in twenty minutes the time agreed upon between
Mr. Fogg and ourselves will have expired."
"What time did the last train arrive from Liverpool?"  asked Thomas
"Well, gentlemen," resumed Andrew Stuart, "if Phileas Fogg had come in
the 7:23 train, he would have got here by this time.
that Mr. Fogg is very eccentric.
"The fact is," resumed Thomas Flanagan, "Mr. Fogg's project was
"He has lost, gentleman," said Andrew Stuart, "he has a hundred times
taken from New York to get here in time arrived yesterday.
a list of the passengers, and the name of Phileas Fogg is not among
to present Mr. Fogg's cheque at Barings to-morrow."
At this moment, the hands of the club clock pointed to twenty minutes
"Five minutes more," said Andrew Stuart.
"I wouldn't give up my four thousand of the bet," said Andrew Stuart,
pendulum had not beat the sixtieth second when Phileas Fogg appeared,
followed by an excited crowd who had forced their way through the club
doors, and in his calm voice, said, "Here I am, gentlemen!"
IN WHICH IT IS SHOWN THAT PHILEAS FOGG GAINED NOTHING 
Yes; Phileas Fogg in person.
Passepartout went on his errand enchanted.
Passepartout waited a
good twenty minutes, and when he left the reverend gentleman, it was
Mr. Fogg's room.
"What is the matter?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"What is the matter?" asked Mr. Fogg.
"Monday," replied Mr. Fogg.
"Yes, yes, yes, yes!" cried Passepartout.
We arrived twenty-four hours ahead of time; but there are
Passepartout had seized his master by the collar, and was dragging him
Phileas Fogg, thus kidnapped, without having time to think, left his
The clock indicated a quarter before nine when he appeared in the great
Phileas Fogg had accomplished the journey round the world in eighty
Phileas Fogg had won his wager of twenty thousand pounds!
Phileas Fogg had, without suspecting it, gained one day on his journey,
In journeying eastward he had gone towards the sun, and the days
therefore diminished for him as many times four minutes as he crossed
Phileas Fogg, going eastward, saw the sun pass the meridian eighty
times, his friends in London only saw it pass the meridian seventy-nine
and not Sunday, as Mr. Fogg thought.
And Passepartout's famous family watch, which had always kept London
time, would have betrayed this fact, if it had marked the days as well
as the hours and the minutes!
Phileas Fogg, then, had won the twenty thousand pounds; but, as he had
Passepartout and the unfortunate Fix, against whom he cherished no
He deducted, however, from Passepartout's share the cost of
That evening, Mr. Fogg, as tranquil and phlegmatic as ever, said to
"Mr. Fogg," replied she, "it is for me to ask that question.
"Dear Mr. Fogg!" said the young woman.
"Dear Aouda!" replied Phileas Fogg.
It need not be said that the marriage took place forty-eight hours
after, and that Passepartout, glowing and dazzling, gave the bride
The next day, as soon as it was light, Passepartout rapped vigorously
Mr. Fogg opened it, and asked, "What's the
matter, Passepartout?"
"No doubt," returned Mr. Fogg, "by not crossing India.
not crossed India, I should not have saved Aouda; she would not have
Mr. Fogg quietly shut the door.
Phileas Fogg had won his wager, and had made his journey around the