We look at some of the key moments in the history of the English language. We look at the ways in which the language has been used to describe the world around us. We also look at how we use words to express our feelings about the world. Mr. Phileas Fogg won a bet that he could travel the world without leaving London.
Phileas Fogg, a London police detective, was in Bombay on the orders of his master, the Mongolian king. Mr. Fogg was travelling with Sir Francis Cromarty on a tour of the world. They hired an elephant to take them across India. The journey took two hours, during which time Mr Fogg set off on a spring-like spring.
Sir Francis Fogg and a group of travellers were travelling through a forest in India. The elephant they were riding stopped, and the guide led them into a thicket. There they heard the sound of human voices, accompanied by brass instruments. A procession of Brahmins was being led by a hideous statue of the goddess Kali. The guide led the elephant out of the thicket, and leaped upon his back.
Aouda on the Rangoon, in company with Phileas Fogg, gave him new material forReflection. Fix decided that he must warn the English authorities, and signal the steamer before her arrival. Aouda's history, the affair at theBombay pagoda, the purchase of the elephant for two thousand pounds, and the rescue of Fogg were recounted.
Frenchman, Batulcar Passepartout, went to Yokohama, Japan, to get something to eat at all hazards. He found that the butchers stalls contained neither mutton, goat, nor pork; and, knowing also that it is a sacrilege to kill cattle, he made up his mind that meat was far from plentiful. He decided to offer himself as a cook or servant, in payment of passage and meals. Once at San Francisco, he would
Phileas Fogg was in San Francisco to buy rifles and revolvers. He met up with detective Fix, who asked him to accompany him on a walk. They found a great crowd gathered in the streets of the city. It appeared to be a political meeting. Mr. Fogg thought it a useless precaution.
Phileas Fogg, of London, tried to cross the Atlantic on a boat. He asked the captain to take him to Liverpool, but the captain said no. He then asked to be taken to Bordeaux, and was told no. Mr. Fogg left the hull and engine of the Henrietta and sacrificed the whole value of the craft.
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included in this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits of the use you derive from the use. The copyright laws of most countries also govern what you can do with this work. See paragraph 1.E below