In this article, we look at some of the key moments in the history of the English language. We look at the ways in which the language has been used to describe the world around us. We also look at how we use words to express our feelings about the world.
Mr. Phileas Fogg lived, in 1872, at No. 7, Saville Row, BurlingtonGardens, the house in which Sheridan died in 1814. He was one of the most noticeable members of the Reform Club, though he seemed always toavoid attracting attention. People said that he resembled Byron--at least that his head was Byronic.
Phileas Fogg was a member of the Reform, founded mainly for the purpose of abolishing pernicious insects. He was not lavish, nor avaricious; for, whenever he knew that money wasneeded for a noble, useful, or benevolent purpose, he supplied it anonymously. His sole pastimes were reading the papers and playing whist.
Jean Passepartout was a valet to Monsieur Phileas Fogg. Fogg had recently dismissed his predecessor, James Forster, for being too slow. The new valet, a Frenchman, was given the name of "Passepartout" He lived with Fogg in Saville Row, London.
Passepartout was a Parisian who left his country for England, taking service as a valet. Passepartout had been a vagrant in his early years, and now yearned for repose. He found his masters invariably whimsical and irregular, or on the look-out for adventure.
house in Saville Row.  So clean, well-arranged, solemn a mansion that it seemed to him like a snail's shell, lighted and warmed by gas. A card hung over the clock, a programme of the daily routine of the house. Everything was regulated and foreseen that was to be done from half-past eleven a.m. till midnight.
Three days before at the Bank of England a package of banknotes, to the value of fifty-five thousand pounds, had been taken from the principal cashier's table. A keen observer of English customs had the Curiosity to examine a gold ingot weighing some seven or eight pounds. He took it up, scrutinised it, passed it to his neighbour, he to the next man, and so on until the ingot, going from hand to hand, was transferred to the end
Ralph would not concede that the work of the detectives was likely to be in vain, for he thought that the prize offered would greatly stimulate their zeal and activity. everywhere people were discussing the probabilities of a successful pursuit; and the Reform Club was especially agitated. Stuart and Flanagan played together, while Phileas Fogg had Fallentin for his partner.
"I would wager four thousand pounds that such a journey, made under these conditions, is impossible" "Quite possible, on the contrary," returned Mr. Fogg. "But I warn you that I shall do it at your expense." "Calm yourself, my dear Stuart," said Fallentin. "It's only a joke."
Phileas Fogg, at twenty-five minutes past seven, left the Reform Club. His servant, Passepartout, was not due in Saville Row until precisely midnight. Mr. Fogg repaired to his bedroom, and called out, "Passepartout!" "I am quite ready now," was his tranquil response. "We start for Dover and Calais in ten minutes"
Phileas Fogg won a bet that he could travel the world without leaving London. He and his servant, Passepartout, took two first-class tickets for Paris. The news of the bet spread through the Reform Club, and afforded an exciting topic of conversation. Mr. Fogg left London on the 21st of December, 1872.
Phileas Fogg's venture was eagerly devoured by all classes of readers. People in general thought him a lunatic, and blamed his Reform Club friends for having accepted a wager which betrayed the mental aberration of its proposer. A long article appeared, on the 7th of October, in the bulletin of the Royal Geographical Society, showing the utter folly of the enterprise.
The steamer Mongolia, belonging to the Peninsular and Oriental Company, was due at eleven o'clock a.m. on Wednesday, the 9th of October. Two men were promenading up and down the wharves, among the crowd ofatives and strangers who were sojourning at this once straggling village. One was the British consul at Suez, who, despite the prophecies. of the English Government, was in the habit of seeing
"Mr. Fix," said the consul, "I like your way of talking, and hope you'll succeed" "I hope so, Mr. Fix, for it was a heavy robbery," replied the detective. "A magnificent robbery, consul; fifty-five thousand pounds!  We don't often have such windfalls!"
A French passenger on board a steamer asked to have his passport visaed by the consul of Bombay. The consul took the document and carefully read it, whilst Fix observed, or rather devoured, the stranger with his eyes from a corner of the room. Passports are only good for annoying honest folks, and aiding in the flight of rogues.
, he looks and acts like a perfectly honest man," replied the Turkish consul. Fix started off in search of Passepartout. Mr. Fogg, after leaving the consulate, repaired to the quay, gave some orders, went off to the    Mongolia in a boat, and descended to his cabin.
"You have plenty of time; it's only twelve o'clock," said Fix. Passepartout pulled out his big watch. "Twelve!" he exclaimed; "It's only eight minutes before ten." Fix: "You have kept London time, which is two hours behind that of Suez" "You ought to regulate your watch at noon in each country," said Passe partout. "I regulate my watch?  Never!" cried Fix.
"I have no longer any doubt.  I have spotted my man," said the detective. "He passes himself off as an odd stick who is going round the world inighty days," he added. "Then he's a sharp fellow," returned the consul, "and counts on returning to London after putting the police of the two countries off his track"
Phileas Fogg was a member of the Reform Club. He passed through the Red Sea with cold indifference. He made his four hearty meals every day, regardless of the most persistent rolling and pitching on the part of the steamer. A tax-collector, on the way to his post at Goa; the Rev.Decimus Smith, returning to his parish at Bombay; and abrigadier-general of the English army, made up the party.
Passepartout and Fix got into the habit of chatting together, the latter making it a point to gain the worthy man's confidence. The Mongolia had still sixteen hundred and fifty miles to traverse before reaching Bombay, and was obliged to remain four hours at Steamer Point to coal up. Passepartout was enchanted with the congenialcompanion which chance had secured him in the person of the delightful Monsieur Fix.
as Fogg of two days since his departure from London, and he calmly entered the fact in the itinerary, in the column of gains. The British Crown exercises a real and despotic dominion over the larger portion of India. The distancebetween Bombay and Calcutta, as the bird flies, is only from one thousand to eleven hundred miles.
Phileas Fogg, a London police detective, was in Bombay on the orders of his master, the Mongolian king. Mr. Fogg's landlord served him a giblet of "native rabbit," on which he prided himself. Despite its spiced sauce, he found it far from palatable, and rang for the landlord.
Passepartout, hatless, shoeless, and. having in the squabble lost his package of shirts and shoes, rushed. into the station. The detective, who had followed Mr. Fogg to the station, and saw that he was really going to leave Bombay, was there, upon the platform.
An hour after leaving Bombay the train had passed the viaducts and the Island of Salcette, and had got into the open country. At Callyan they reached the junction of the branch line which descends towards south-eastern India by Kandallah and Pounah. Then they came upon vast tracts of jungle inhabited by snakes and tigers, and still haunted by elephants.
Passepartout was travelling with Sir Francis Cromarty on a tour of the world. The train stopped at eight o'clock, in the midst of a glade some 15 miles beyond Rothal. The conductor shouted, "Passengers will get out here!" Passepartout refused to alter his watch, which he kept at London time.
The railway came to a termination at this point. The conductor was furious. Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty, after searching the village from end. to end, came back without having found anything. An Indian came out of the hut, and conducted them within the enclosure. The elephant was half domesticated.
Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty set out on a journey across India. They hired an elephant driver to take them across the Vindhia Mountains. The journey took two hours, during which time Kiouni quenching his thirst, set to a spring-like spring.
Sir Francis and Mr. Fogg set off at six in the morning on a journey to Allahabad. The journey began with a stop at a bungalow on the Vindhias chain. The guide watched Kiouni, who slept perched against a tree. A thought troubled Passepartout about what to do with the elephant when they arrived.
Sir Francis Fogg and a group of travellers were travelling through a forest in India. The elephant they were riding stopped, and the guide led them into a thicket. There they heard the sound of human voices, accompanied by brass instruments. A procession of Brahmins was being led by a hideous statue of the goddess Kali.
Sir Francis watched the procession with a sad countenance, and, turning to the guide, said, "A suttee" Phileas Fogg had heard what Sir Francis said, and asked: "What is a sutttee?" The guide led the elephant out of the thicket, and leaped upon his back.
The project was a bold one, full of difficulty, perhaps impracticable. Mr. Fogg was going to risk life, or at least liberty, and therefore the success of his tour. The guide was familiar with the pagoda of Pillaji, in which, as he declared, the young woman was imprisoned.
The party reached the walls about half-past twelve, without having met anyone. They waited till midnight; but no change took place among the guards. The other plan must be carried out; an opening in the walls of the pagoda must be made. They were getting on rapidly, when suddenly a cry was heard in the interior.
Sir Francis Fogg and Passepartout followed a guide through the woods to the pyre. They saw the victim, stretched out beside her husband's body. She seemed, having shaken off the stupor of intoxication, to be striving to escape. Sir Francis's heart throbbed; and, convulsively, he found in it an open knife.
The elephant, thanks to the skilful guidance of the Parsee, was advancing rapidly through the still darksome forest, and, an hour after leaving the pagoda, had crossed a vast plain. The old rajah's body, indeed, now appeared upon the burning pyre; and the priests, recovered from their terror, perceived that an abduction had taken place. But the cries and cries and a ball which whizzed through Phileas Fogg's hat
Phileas Fogg, Sir Francis Cromarty, and Aouda Passepartout set out on a journey from Allahabad to London. They travelled on a train, with the help of an Indian guide, who gave them a guide and an elephant. Mr. Fogg paid the guide the price agreed upon for his service, and not a farthing more. He then gave the elephant to the guide to dispose of.
Aouda was taken to Benares, a city in the Ganges valley. She was given a lift to Hong Kong, where she could stay until the affair was hushed up. She thanked her deliverers, rather with tears than with words, but her fine eyes interpreted her gratitude better than her lips. Aouda did not forget what she owed to Sir Francis Cromarty.
ium market of India; or Monghir, a more than European town, for it is as English as Manchester or Birmingham. Calcutta was reached at seven in the morning, and the packet left for Hong Kong at noon. The two days gained between London and Bombay had been lost, as has been seen, in the journey across India.
Passepartout was to escort Aouda to Hong Kong, but the steamer leaves at noon. Judge Obadiah, a fat, round man, followed by the clerk, entered. The judge took down a wig which was hanging on a nail, and put it on his head. Then he exclaimed, "Heh!  This is not my wig!"
Passepartout admitted to violating the sacred pagoda of Malabar Hill. He was sentenced to a week's imprisonment and a fine of three hundred pounds. The sentence ruined a wager of twenty thousand pounds lost, because he, like a precious fool, had gone into that abominable pagoda.
The Rangoon was moored half a mile off in the harbour, its signal of departure hoisted at the mast-head. Fix still nourished hopes that the robber would not, after all, leave the two thousand pounds behind him, but issued forth on Mr. Fogg's traces. Aouda did not quite know what to make of her master's eccentricity, though Passepartout had given her some hints.
The Rangoon was sailing from Bombay to Hong Kong. A warrant for Fogg's arrest was due to arrive at Hong Kong soon. Fogg hoped to conceal his presence on the steamer to the end of the voyage. If the warrant should arrive, Fix could arrest him and give him into the hands of the local police, and there would be no further trouble.
Aouda on the Rangoon, in company with Phileas Fogg, gave him new material forReflection. Fix decided that he must warn the English authorities, and signal the steamer before her arrival. Aouda's history, the affair at theBombay pagoda, the purchase of the elephant for two thousand pounds, and the rescue of Fogg were recounted.
The detective and Passepartout met often on deck after this interview, though Fix was reserved, and did not attempt to induce his companion todivulge any more facts concerning Mr. Fogg. He caught a glimpse of that mysterious gentleman once or twice; but Mr.Fogg usually confined himself to the cabin, where he kept Aouda company, or, according to his habit, took a hand at whist. Passe partout began very seriously to conjecture what strange
Mr. Fogg hoped to accomplish the journey in six days, so as to be in time for the steamer which would leave on the 6th of November for Yokohama, the principal Japanese port. The Rangoon had a large quota of passengers, many of whom disembarked at Singapore, among them a number of Indians, Ceylonese, Chinamen, and Portuguese. The weather, which had hitherto been fine, changed with the last quarter of the moon.
Passepartout, Fix, and Phileas Fogg were sailing from England to Hong Kong. The weather was bad during the last days of the voyage. The Rangoon rolled heavily and the passengers becamepatient of the long, monstrous waves. A sort of tempest arose on the 3rd of November, and the vessel squalled about with fury.
Passepartout was enraged beyond expression by the unpropitious weather. The storm exasperated him, the gale made him furious, and he longed to lash the obstinate sea into obedience. He overwhelmed the captain, officers, and sailors, who could not help laughing at his patience. Land was not signalled until five-o'clock on the morning of the 6th; the steamer was due on the 5th.
Pilot Phileas Fogg was on a tour of Europe. He found himself about twenty-four hours behind-hand, thirty-five days after leaving London. The steamer which crossed the Pacific from Yokohama to San Francisco had a direct connection with that from Hong Kong. Mr. Fogg had sixteen hours in which to attend to his business there, to deposit Aouda safely with her wealthy relative.
The island of Hong Kong is situated at the mouth of the Canton River, and is separated by about sixty miles from the Portuguese town of Macao. The greater part of the transportation of Chinese goods finds its depot at the former place. Hong Kong seemed to him not like Bombay, Calcutta, and Singapore, since, like them, it betrayed the evidence of English supremacy.
Opium is one of the most despicable vices which afflict humanity. Opium is smoked everywhere, at all times, in the Celestial Empire. Once accustomed to it, the victims cannot dispense with it, except by suffering horrible bodily.contortions and agonies.
Passepartout drank without perceiving the liquor in his glass. "My master is an honest man, and that, when he makes a wager, he tries to win it fairly!" said Passepartout. "But who do you think I am?" asked Fix, looking at him intently. "I am a police detective, sent out here by the London office"
Passepartout felt himself yielding more and more to the effects of the narcotic. Fix, seeing that he must, at all hazards, be separated from his master, wished to overcome him. Fix slipped one into Passepartout's hand, put it between his lips, lit it, drew several puffs, and his head fell upon the table.
Phileas Fogg was trying to charter a vessel to carry him to Yokohama. He could only find vessels which were not loading or unloading, and which could not therefore set sail. A sailor on one of the wharves offered him a hundred pounds per day, and an additional reward of two hundred pounds if he reached Yokohamas in time.
Pilot-boat No. 43, with its crew on board, and its provisions stored away, was ready for departure. The crew of the Tankadere, composed of John Bunsby, was composed of four hardy mariners, who were familiar with the Chinese seas. Below was a man of sprightly self-reliant and energetic countenance, with a sp rightly expression of the eye.
"I am sorry to have nothing better to offer you," said Mr. Fogg to Fix, who bowed without responding. "It's certain," thought he, "though rascal as he is, he is a polite one!" The sails and the English flag were hoisted at ten minutes past three. The Chinese seas are usually boisterous, subject to terrible gales of wind.
Fogg's plan appeared to him the simplest in the world. He would not stop at Yokohama, but would at once take the boat for San Francisco. The vast extent of America would ensure him impunity and safety. But, once in the United States, what should he, or Fix, do?
The Tankadere entered the Straits of Fo-Kien, which separate the island of Formosa from the Chinese coast, in the small hours of the night. The sea was very rough in the straits, and the chopping waves broke her course, whilst it became very difficult to stand on deck. At daybreak the wind began to blow hard again and the heavens seemed to predict a gale. John Bunsby's suspicions were confirmed.
The Tankadere was hit by a typhoon off the coast of China. The crew and passengers were bathed in spray, but submitted to it philosophically. The captain asked his crew if it was not time to slacken the speed of the boat. The next morning at dawn they espied the coast, and John Bunsby asserted that they were not one hundred miles from Shanghai.
The Carnatic, setting sail from Hong Kong at half-past six, directed her course at full steam towards Japan. A small brass cannon stood on the forward deck of the Tankadere, for making signals in the fogs. A passenger with a half-stupefied eye, staggering gait, and disordered hair, was seen to emerge from the second cabin, and to sit on deck.
Passepartout was on the way to Japan, and what should he do when he got there? The first thing to do was to find Mr. Fogg, and apologise for his singular behaviour. The time of sailing had been changed, that he should have informed his master of that fact, and that he had not.
Carnatic anchored at the quay near the custom-house, in the midst of a crowd of ships bearing the flags of all nations. Passepartout went timidly ashore on this so curious territory of the curious territory. He had nothing better to do than, taking chance for his guide, to wander aimlessly through the streets of Yokohama.
Passepartout, a poor, jaded, famished man, went to Yokohama, Japan, to get something to eat at all hazards. He found that the butchers stalls contained neither mutton, goat, nor pork; and, knowing also that it is a sacrilege to kill cattle, he made up his mind that meat was far from plentiful. Passepartout decided to wait several hours, and as he was wandering along it occurred to him that
Passepartout found himself in an old Japanese coat, and a sort of one-sided turban. He would offer himself as a cook or servant, in payment of passage and meals. Once at San Francisco, he would find some means of going on. The difficulty was, how to traverse the four thousand miles of the Pacific which lay between Japan and the New World.
"I should so like to cross the Pacific with you!" said the Honourable Mr. Batulcar. Passepartout was engaged to act in the celebrated Japanese troupe. The performance was much like all acrobatic displays; but it must beconfessed that the Japanese are the first equilibrists in the world.
The Long Noses form a peculiar company, under the direct patronage of the god Tingou. Attired after the fashion of the Middle Ages, they bore upon their shoulders a splendid pair of wings. The noses were made of bamboo, and were five, six, and even ten feet long.
Passepartout, a Frenchman, had arrived on the steamer Carnatic the day before. He had been seen by the captain of the Yokohama steamer, who had directed his course towards the little craft. The San Francisco steamer was announced to leave that very evening, and it became necessary to find Passepartout without delay.
Phileas Fogg had traversed one half of the terrestrial globe in eighty days. He had to make long circuits from London to Aden, from Aden to Bombay, from Calcutta to Singapore, and from Singapore to Yokohama. His watch exactly agreed with the ship's chronometers. He would have liked to know what Fix would say if he were aboard.
"I will follow him across the Atlantic. As for the money, heavengrant there may be some left! But the fellow has already spent in.ravelling, rewards, trials, bail, elephants, and all sorts of charges, more than five thousand pounds. Yet, after all, the Bank is rich!"
Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout set foot upon the American continent, if this name can be given to the floating quay upon which they disembarked. San Francisco was no longer. the legendary city of 1849--a city of banditti, assassins, and.incendiaries, who flocked hither in crowds in pursuit of plunder. It was now a great commercial.emporium.
Phileas Fogg was in San Francisco to buy rifles and revolvers. He met up with detective Fix, who asked him to accompany him on a walk. They found a great crowd gathered in the streets of the city. It appeared to be a political meeting. Mr. Fogg thought it a useless precaution.
Fogg, Aouda, and Fix found themselves between two fires. The torrent of men, armed with loaded canes and sticks, was irresistible. A big brawny fellow with a red beard, and broad shoulders, raised his clenched fist to strike Mr. Fogg, whom he would have given a crushing blow, had not Fix rushed in and received it in his hand.
The journey from New York to San Francisco used to take at least six months. It is now completed in seven days. In 1862 President Lincoln fixed the end of the line at Omaha, in Nebraska. Between Omaha and the Pacific the railway crosses a territory still infested by Indians and wild beasts.
The Central Pacific, taking Sacramento for its starting-point, extends eastward to meet the road from Omaha. The line from San Francisco to Sacramento runs in a north-easterly direction, along the American228River, which empties into San Pablo Bay. The train did not proceed rapidly; counting the numerousstoppages, it did not run more than twenty miles an hour.
A troop of ten or twelve thousand head of buffalo encumbered the track. The locomotive, slackening its speed, tried to clear the way with its cow-catcher. But the mass of animals was too great. The procession ofbuffaloes lasted three full hours.
Passepartout was on train No. 48 when he saw a notice on the door of each car. A Mormon missionary was giving a lecture on Mormonism. Passepartout, who knew nothing of Mormonism except the custom of polygamy, decided to go. The story of Joseph Smith's bankruptcy and retirement into the Far West was told.
The train reached Ogden at two o'clock, where it rested for six hours. Mr. Fogg and his party had time to pay a visit to Salt Lake City, connected with Ogden by a branch road. They spent two hours in thisstrikingly American town, built on the pattern of other cities of the Union. They saw no churches, but the prophet's court-house and the spurs of the Wahsatch Range.
The train, on leaving Great Salt Lake at Ogden, passed northward for an hour as far as Weber River, having completed nearly nine hundred miles. There were many women, which was.easily accounted for by the "peculiar institution" of the Mormons; but it must not be supposed that all the Mormons are polygamists.
Aouda recognised Colonel Proctor, the man who had so grossly insulted Phileas Fogg at the San Francisco meeting. She did not comprehend, perhaps, the depth of the sentiment with which her protector inspired her, which she called gratitude, but which, though she was unconscious of it, was more than that.
Travellers crossed the Rocky Mountains on the way to the Atlantic. They were playing whist, a favourite pastime of Mr. Fogg's. The train was stopped by a violent storm, but no one was injured. The passengers were taken to a hospital, where they were treated for wounds.
Colonel Proctor and his passengers were stuck on a bridge over a river. The bridge was in ruinous condition, several of the iron wires being broken. The engineer proposed a plan to get over the bridge using a train. The plan failed, but the passengers were impressed by the engineer's idea.
The train entered Nebraska at eleven, near Sedgwick, and touched at Julesburg on the southern branch of the Union River. They entered Colorado at eleven and entered Wyoming at eleven. The train pursued its course, that evening, without interruption, crossing Cheyne Pass, and reaching Evans Pass. But scarcely had the train passed the river, when the bridge fell with a crash into the rapids of Medicine Bow.
The Railway. was inaugurated on the 23rd of October, 1867, by the chief engineer, General Dodge. Two powerful.locomotives, carrying nine cars of invited guests, stopped at this point;. the Sioux and Pawnees performed an imitation Indian.battle, fireworks were let off, and the. first number of the Railway was printed by a press.
"I determined to return to America and find you as soon as I.had completed the business which called me to England," said Phileas Fogg. "Will you appoint a meeting for six months hence?" replied Colonel Proctor. "Why not ten years hence?" said Mr. Fogg, "and I shall be at the place promptly" "All this is an evasion," cried Stamp Proctor, "Now or never!"
The train was attacked by a band of Sioux. The passengers, who were almost all armed, responded by revolver-shots. Some of the cars were barricaded, and sustained a siege, like moving forts. The struggle lasted for ten minutes, and would result in the triumph of the Sioux if the train was not stopped.
Three passengers including Passepartout had disappeared. Had they been killed in the struggle? Were they taken prisoners by the Sioux? It was impossible to tell. Phileas Fogg, by this resolution, inevitably sacrificed himself. The delay of a single day would make him lose the steamer at New York.
The train from Omaha to San Francisco had run out of fuel. The engineer, when he found himself in the desert, found himself without fuel. Neither the engineer nor the stoker had time for the succour of telegraph to arrive. The train had come themselves to swoon, and had remained for some time in their swoon.
The train left behind at Fort Kearney was in distress. Aouda, on seeing the locomotive come up, hurried out of the station, and asked the conductor, "Are you going to start?" "At once, madam," replied the conductor. "But the prisoners, our unfortunate fellow-travellers--" "If you wish to go, please get in," said the conductor; "I will not go"
Phileas Fogg and the squad had gone southward; in the south all was still vacancy. The captain, who was really alarmed, did not know what course to take. He was on the point of ordering a reconnaissance, when shots were heard. The soldiers rushed out of the fortifiedfort, and half a mile off they perceived a little band returning in good order.
During the winter, when trains are blocked up by the snow, these sledges make extremelyrapid journeys across the frozen plains from one station to another. Mr. Fogg readily made a bargain with the owner of this land-craft. The wind was favourable, being fresh, and blowing from the west. The sledge slid over the hardened snow with a forty miles an hour.
The journey from Kearney, Nebraska, to Omaha began on the morning of the 11th. The sledge was carried by Mudge, Passepartout, and a young woman. The road was clear of obstacles, and Mudge was not afraid of being stopped by the Platte River.
The China, for Liverpool, had started three-quarters of an hour before. None of the other steamers were able to serve his projects. The Inman steamer did not depart till the next day, and could not cross the Atlantic in time to save the wager. Mr. Fogg learned all this in consulting his Bradshaw.
Phileas Fogg, of London, tried to cross the Atlantic on a boat. He hailed a boat, got into it, and soon found himself on board the Henrietta. He asked the captain to take him to Liverpool, but the captain said no. He then asked to be taken to Bordeaux, and was told no.
Phileas Fogg, Esquire. was in command instead of Captain Speedy. He had so shrewdly managed with his banknotes that theailors and. stokers, who were only an occasional crew, went over to him in a body. The captain was shut up in his cabin under lock and key, and was.uttering loud cries, which signified an anger at once pardonable and excessive.
The conquest of the Henrietta, the bribery of the crew, Fogg managing the boat like a skilled seaman, amazed and confused him. Captain Speedy continued to howl and growl in his cabin; and Passepartout, whose duty it was to carry him his meals, took the greatest precautions. Mr. Fogg did not seem even to know that there was a captain on board.
The coal on the Henrietta gave out on the 18th of July. The captain of the ship, Captain Speedy, was on the point of bursting. Phileas Fogg asked the captain to sell him his vessel, but the captain refused. Mr. Fogg then set off a bomb on the captain.
Phileas Fogg left the hull and engine of the Henrietta to the captain, that is, near the whole value of the craft. The crew worked lustily, keeping up the fires, and on that day the poop, cabins, bunks, and the spare deck were sacrificed. On the next day, the 19th of December, the masts,rafts, and spars were burned. The railings, fittings, the greater part of the deck
Phileas Fogg was arrested on his way from Liverpool to London. His master, Passepartout, wept till he was blind, and felt like blowing his brains. Mr. Fogg sat calmly, calmly, waiting for the door of this prison to close.
Phileas Fogg was a robber arrested three days ago in Liverpool. He was held at the Custom House, Liverpool, but was released. He set out for London on an express train. The train took him five hours and a half to reach London. He arrived at the terminus ten minutes before nine p.m. He lost the wager.
Phileas Fogg lost his fortune in a wager with friends of the Reform Club. The gas burner in his room had been burning for eighty days. Aouda was overwhelmed with grief at her protector's misfortune. Passepartout watched all night, like afaithful dog, at his master's door.
Phileas Fogg was brought to England by his persecutors. He asked Aouda for pardon for bringing him to England. He said he was rich, but now he was ruined. "I have no friends, madam," he said. "Your heart is a sad thing, Mr. Fogg."
The real bankrobber, a certain James Strand, had been arrested, on the 17th day of December, at Edinburgh. Three days before, Phileas Fogg had been a criminal, who was being desperately followed up by the police. Now he was an honourable gentleman, mathematically pursuing his eccentric journey round the world. The papers resumed their discussion about the wager; all those who had. laid bets, for or against him, revived their interest, as
John Sullivan, Samuel Fallentin, Andrew Stuart, Gauthier Ralph, Thomas Flanagan, and Lord Albemarle met in the great saloon of a London club. Andrew Stuart said that if Phileas Fogg had come in time for the 7:23 train, he would have got here by this time.
Phileas Fogg had, without suspecting it, gained one day on his journey, and this merely because he had travelled constantly towards the sun. In other words, while going eastward, he saw the sun pass the meridian eighty-nine times in London, only to see it pass again in the opposite direction.
Phileas Fogg had won his wager and had made his journey around the world in eighty days. He divided the one thousand pounds that remained between him and the unfortunate Fix. He deducted, however, from Passepartout's share the cost of the gas which had burned in his room for nineteen hundred and twenty-five hours.
"Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. You agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGeorgianGutenberg-tm License. See paragraph 1.E below. The copyright laws of most countries also govern what you can do with this work. If you are outside the United States, check the laws of your country before downloading.
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included in this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits of the use you derive from the use. you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg.
You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium. You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project Gutenberg works.
You agree to indemnify the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following: distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-TM work, and any Defect you cause. The Foundation is a non profit 501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status
Donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make statements about tax treatment of donations received from outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff. We do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including including checks, online payments and credit card payments.